# Dat Consortium Meeting 5

Wed 2019-12-11, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_

## Agenda

- Updates / Catching up
- Talk about membership (adding / removing)
- Talk about adding wishlists to projects?
- Revisit talking about roles

If we have time:

- Talk about consulting about how dat works (via foundation?) (from okdistribute)

## Attending

- Mauve
- Diego
- Kevin
- Paul
- Sam
- Mathias
- Frando
- Nina
- Serapath
- karissa


## Meeting

- catching up
    - Mauve finished some work related to datfoundation site and released it. Looking forward to apply to a future mozilla grant.
    - Frando has been doing some community work and also some progress on [sonar](https://github.com/arso-project/sonar)

- Talk about membership
    - karissa starts introducing the topic. It would be good to be prepared for the future. The situation is similar to adopt a CoC.
    - Nina asks what membership is. According to that we could figure out other things.
    - Karissa adds, people is difficult to manage, having a process (one or more) can help on this. Avoiding to have only one person as the only one responsible.
    - hypothetical scenario, what if the foundation receives a huge donation? Does this triggers other internal processes?
    - how scuttlebut manages this situations?
    - Mauve mentions that it would be great to avoid a meritocracy.
    - Mauve asks Mathias about how he envision the future of technical meetings and memberships.
        - Mathias see this as Working Group.
        - Karissa adds that we (dat foundation) have some form of proposals (https://github.com/datprotocol/DEPs/)
    - Karissa mentions that the foundation has some money for an upcoming Dat event next year, and that could be something where people from the consortium can help.
    - frando would like to avoid centralization. Maybe the core group could be an invite-only thing, other members can invite new teams/people.
    - Kevin would like to err on the side of being more flexible. Having a [CoC](https://github.com/datproject/Code-of-Conduct) is important.
    - Making these processes as minimal as possible. (karissa)
    - The next year event could be a subgroup of the consortium (karissa)
    - Having the structure from the consortium calls is good we can use a portion of the call for a particular purpose. (karissa)
    - Maybe we could have a repo for protocols, like we have the CoC repo (karissa)

## Transcription

### Introductions

- Mauve: Working on dat foundation website. Almost done
- Diego: Working on P2P commons SDK
- Frando: Had a hackathon last weekend with people from Cobox and Alex from Cabal, and Tony from Decentstack. Spent 3 days in Berlin hacking. Found many areas where working on similar things. Meeting together helped deduplicate effort and set path for collaboration. Are in the process of getting stuff out in [sonar](https://github.com/arso-project/sonar) repo on Github. Got a CLI and interface for document database based on hypercore and kappa-core. With full-text search. Pre-alpha but getting usable. Working on kappa-core. Going to write newsletter and blog post. Going good, hoping to meet Paul and others in [CCC in Leipzig](https://www.ccc.de/en/updates/2019/36c3-in-leipzig) end of this year. Maybe share who's going to be around. Next target for having something to demonstrate.
- Kevin: Working on Ara. Set of tools for creators and fans, so creators can sell their stuff directly without platforms taking a 30% cut. Mostly an electron based desktop app. Lately focused on Etherium side, planning to get it out on mainnet. Going to put ERC token. Aiming for mid-january. Tested Dat side with employees. Tallying up results, planning to present at next comm comm. jwerle is working on little core labs, planning to get components into Ara or vise-versa. The Ara file manager got signed to run without warning messages. Got auto-updates working, even before the app starts.
- mafintosh: Pushing swarm updates out. Andrew has been off for thanksgiving.
- nina: Trying to get hyperswarm-proxy to work. Trying to get whole setup to work, seeding hypertrie from docker container. Everything crashed right before the call, but stuff is coming along.
- pfrazee: Working on a twitter clone to help make a nice entry point to the network. Done this a billion times but this one is gonna win. Started working on the "beaker bible" which has documentation and specs. At least we have an end in sight, there's a finite number of TODO items. Feeling good about that. Looking forward to going to CCC at the end of the month. At least some kind of a demo. Going to be temporary, if you use it you'll need to throw away your data, but hopefully it'll work.
- Sam Macbeth: Pushing forward on Dat support in Cliqz browser. Trying to get initial release out there. Testing connectivity. Doing tests to see how well discovery works across a few thousand users, whether they can discover and connect to each other. See how it scales to different types of networks. Discussed with Kevin to get metrics for performance. Saw repeating things from dat fox to new extension, got it into 'sams-dat-api'. Putting code in there to make it reusable for other stuff.
- serapath: Started with datdot. Figuring out how to benchmark things. Trying out crypto libraries, used things that used crypto libraries before, now using them directly this week.
- karissa: Working on a new way to look at the community scan of p2p projects. Working with SimplySecure, a design consulting non-profit, we've been working on design patterns for decentralization for about a year, funded by Samsung Next, the idea is to create design patterns, which protocols and architectures are best for which patterns in application design. COmes from conversation at etherium dev con, a p2p workshop where people wanted to know what protocols to use for what applications. This library should be helpfulf for that. Putting together activism and materials for that. That's a fun thing to work on with them or anyone here that wants to be a part of that. The outputs will be a pattern library, like what boostrap did for CSS in the front end, something you can take off the shelf and use in your P2P application, not necessarily dat related but it's one of the protocols we would look at and compare to other protocols.

### Membership

- So far we've invited a bunch of people to a call and it's all loosely strctured. Going forward as we get to more serious discussions like funding, who can do what might be more important and having a structure for that would be important. I don't know much about it, so I was going to go down the list and ask people what they think about past models they've seen or what they think would be good for the consortium. Karissa, would you mind starting us off.
- Karissa: When I was talking to people about membership and what kinds of models exist, there's lots of different ways to do it. The way that people recommend to me is that you need to decide this before something happens. Like, "this person should be in the call but someone else really doesn't want them there" or "this person shouldn't be in the call because they said something messed up". A code of conduct is part of this. Having a structure would be useful. It could be consensus for everything. Or 60% of people? Something instead of sitting around and it becoming an issue. So we can resolve things and move forward.
- Mauve: I think this is important. Have some sort of structure and definitions for what membership is could make it more "real". Right now it's a lot more ad-hoc.
- Nina: I started thinking about suggestions, I figured out I don't have enough information. We could start with what membership is, is it just being part of these calls? What obligations / expectations / rights does membership bring? According to that, we can decide who could be a member and why and why not.
- Karissa: That makes sense. If it was just calls, what if we had like a 1000 people that joined, it'd be difficult to manage. Right now it's just a bi-weekly call and I guess an event that we were talking about next year. Maybe getting people to help organize the event. The non-profit has donations that aren't spent. Right now the process is basically to spend on whatever the 4 of us decide to spend on. I don't want to hold that responsibility alone or only with 4 people. It doesn't do service to all the other organizations or people using this technology. Having said that, the donations are pretty low. We get not that much money, lower thousands, not much other than to spend on some events. Saying this also to bring up "what if the foundation gets a huge amount". Since we don't have that problem yet, maybe that's not something we should talk about. Maybe focus on small donations. Does anyone know how scuttlebutt does it?
- nina: I agree, in the beginning where is not much, but when somethign happens imemdiately you get people that are really good at these situations which might actually trick people to believe that they're worth more than somebody else or that they deserve more. Maybe there could be some kind of place where contributions are tracked. If two years later somebody comes, you need to prove yourself first.
- Mauve: I'm not a big fan of tracking who has done how much, it almost feels like a "meritocracy" situation where we have stuff like "Oh that person did the most code so they must be the best or have the most authority", or expecting people to do tech things. It doesn't feel very inclusive. I get that it's nice to be recognized and that your contributions are getting you somewhere, but it feels like it'd be a big barrier for new people. It wouldn't feel very welcoming if I had to go through a hazing if I wanted to do anything. Places where I've been where that's the standard haven't been very friendly. Plases where they'll say "you've got to do work before we take you seriously" have been a huge pain, usually because I like to just jump in and do things rather than have to prove myself before I'm allowed to participate. That's probably not the way you were thinking it'd go, but it's a worry I have.
- Nina: I agree that seniority and things can also be an issue. The challenge would be to find something between those two. So people that jump in can get started.
- Sam: I think that at the scale that things are at at the moment, an invitation based system would be good. Anyone in this group could invite people if they want, with the approval of the group. A simple system could be robust. How big could the core group be? What happens when we have more people? Maybe a multiple-tier system? We have the tech call after this which has a larger audience. Maybe we can have a top level of decision makers that decide stuff, and a lower level deciding other stuff. Have a level of constitutaional power and a group of operational power to do things.
- Mauve: I really like that. Mathias, could you speak to what the technical call would be. Concerns over membership? Adding / removing people? Is it a working group call, a core protocol devs talk call?
- Mathias: Neither of those, but more the latter. More of a Q&A, and if there's a big decision to make. We had a working group, but that got superceded by other stuff, so we'll need to figure that out. There's no big things to figure out in the near future. I agree that limiting this meeting would be a good idea. Time constraints, so things don't get out of hands. It'd be nice to keep this focused.
- Karissa: We have a [DEPs process](https://github.com/datprotocol/DEPs/) (Dat Enhancement Proposals) which is a kind of thing done in other projects. We were doing a text discussion around the DEPs, every two weeks as well. I imagine that could happen in the technical call. That doesn't have to change. The reason why this call is different is, for me, it's more about other things. I want to aknowledge what RangerMauve said about worrying about people writing the most code having the most say. But I think there is value in having people who have been around a lot and knowing the history of what's going on and have tried things that have failed or worked. Those contributions don't have to be code. Design and event organizing would count (part of this first hour). That's the stuff that I'd like to talk about. We have some funds for an event next year. I could see that being one of the first things that could come out of this call, organizing the event and spending that money. It'd nice to have the conversation around that specific project and imagine it, maybe it'd be easier.
- Mauve: One thing I'd like to say to that: I've been in a group in my city trying to collaborate and help the homeless. That's one of the projects in our group, but the way we organize is that we have one group for coordination, and then split off into separate groups for specific projects. So consensus doesn't need to be reached for the entire group for everything, more per project. There's groups that help coordinate the projects. Not everyone has to participate in every decision, not everyone has to attend everything if they don't want to. There's just a group to help people propose what could be done, and then peopel create subcomitties that have full authority to do whatever they want rather than having one group. Maybe have a smaller call just for the particular project. Not sure how that'd apply for funds.
- nina: This is absolutely how grassroots groups work. But when it comes to grant funding, you need to become a classical centralized structure. Big funds on top, that then trickle down. Maybe we shouldn't apply for big grants and instead apply for microgrants? Each group must apply for their own funds. In Ehterium they have DAOs, they put money into a smart contract and people get money from that. I don't like that because that's what's happening in society. Tyarny of the majority. We could play with scenarios which don't have centralized funding or something.
- Diego: I was listening to all the ideas and thinking that we agree on the processes and structure, whatever it is, we will need to communicate that effectively to others and how one individual can be part of these working groups or levels. As soon as we define this, how do we communicate this will be important too.
- Frando: I agree with what's been said. Into trying out the event planning, coming together and doing that process sounds good to me. Trying to keep the necessary overhead of centralization as low as possible and making it easy to become part of the process sounds also important to me. Maybe for this core group keeping it in an invite-way, having people here ask to invite people and chat before. Having a bigger circle of involved projects as well. Have a split between people that actively engage and people on the sideline. More like working groups and decentralizing the responsibilities as much as possible.
- Kevin: I think as far as the [code of conduct](https://github.com/datproject/Code-of-Conduct), if something happens we should take action because of it. As far as how much or how little structure, I think it's great that people said stuff around formal process, and to err more on the side of the fluid ad-hoc structure would work really well.
- serapath: Sounds good to me. I'm unsure, it's an important topic, but I don't know.
- Karissa: I agree we should make it as minimal as possible. Proposing to add or removing someone and having a conversation abotu it. If the group is small enough we can have consensus. If we have an event next year, that could be a subgroup with whoever wants to be involved. I'd be hesistant to have tonnes of meetings. Ideally to use some of this time to organize the event. Maybe having a structure for these calls would be helpful, having a section of the call to add/remove people, having another to propose topics for the next call, and the bulk of the call. it'd be nice, especially towards the spring to talk about the event if the evnent is in the summer. If there's a subgroup doing logistics we should have key questions to ask.
- sam: Ont the topic of the core protocol and the structure there, I wonder if we could adopt a formal protocol for this. Around this, there's often these notions where someone proposes a topic and it needs to be seconded before it's added. These exist to make solve this problem, to make sure the agenda gets set for everyone and you can plan your time around that
- Mauve: I think that's how the dat protocol working group worked, we should look into adopting that. I'll summarize what we talked about after the call so we can talk about it.
- karissa: I'm down for github. We have the CoC repository, but it'd be good to talk about the consortium structure, the call format or agenda. Even if mauve isn't around somebody can take the template and do the call.
- nina: I come from another world, I'm not a programmer by profession. I'm inspired by hearing this community of programmers talking about not having one giant codebase and to think "hyper-modular". Because my profession is social science, if I try to translate this into social science, I see that when we think about events and how to structure organizations, we fall back into this centralized mindset. I was thinking - how could we take this hypermodular development and also think about these things in a hypermodular way. When we're talking about one big event, I think, why one big event, what about having a lot of small events and empowering lots of small communities
- karissa: Yeah, I like that. I'd like to second adding that as an agenda item.

## Next meeting

- Mauve: Next meeting would have been Dec 25th, so we should not do that.
- Karissa: January 8th would be good because the 1st is also not a good day. I was thinking about actually talking about the event or a bunch of modular events in an area. It'd be nice to have it all in one city and one of each so that everyone can fly in. I'd like to start talking about that because we won't have much time, it goes pretty quickly. Especially to buy planes in advance.
- Mauve: I'm not a fan of one hour, I think an hour and a half would be nice. The past couple of times we haven't had enough time to go through things and I've felt more rushed. It'd be nice to talk about this.
- Sam: One thing that might help with the feeling of productivity would be to attach action points to discussion points so that at the end when we wrap up we have to make a decision about the action points. So we came up with something to be done out of the discussions and then we'd need to resolve stuff in the next call or offline.
- Mauve: Awesome. I'll summarize these notes and the next meeting will be on January 8th. We had a lot of good discussions and I'd like to maybe continue them over email and see where we get in the new year.

#### Membership - summary

- Should figure out sooner than later
- Should we use consensus?
- Should we use 60% majority votes?
- Tracking work that people have done, requiring people prove themselves before they participate
- Seniority? How to deal with it.
- How big do we get?
- Multiple tier system?
- Focus on the dat event as the first project for the consortium?
- Sub Groups?
- Try having groups find their own grants in addition to large grants?
- How do we communicate this?
- Have people second agenda items before they get added
- Should we try to think about having small events instead of one big one?
- We should have action items at the end of the meeting

## Next meeting

- Talk about the event
- Revisit what we talked about regarding membership