# Dat Consortium Meeting 1

Wed 2019-??-??, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_

### Agenda

- Check-in: who are you and what are you building on the hyper* stack or dat?
- What sort of collaboration would you like to see?
- What sorts of resources do you have that you could contribute? (developer time, $$, docs, code)
- What constitutes membership in the foundation?
- What do groups get from foundation membership?
- How often should we meet?



### People

You have open source libraries related to dat and have contributed to the community in the past.

Dat: Mauve
CS&S: Joe Hand
Ara: Kevin Faaborg, Joseph Werle
Cobox: Kieran
Cliqz: Sam
Archipel: Franz
Cabal: Alexander
Ink&Switch: Peter
Digital Democracy: Noffle, Karissa
GEUT: Diego
Dat.rs: Yosh
Decentstack: Tony
Blue Link Labs: Paul


### Minutes

mauve: excited! collab convos been going on, great to have all here :) checkins...

mauve: working on Dat stuff since Feb. Developer-facing and community - talking to people.

karissa: working on Dat since 2014? hard to hear!! did some fundraising, been doing contracting, working with noffle & digital democracy. not being paid by foundation anymore. in jan move off foundation work to do personal projects.

joe: working since 2015 on Dat stuff, similar to Karissa, now running CS&S. focused on create sustainable systems and governance and thing in OSS. Dat founded around... include other subjects with different histories. some that are 10years old, some jus starting. good to see where all are and how we can help. helping run grant funding from mozilla to dat with Karissa, improve Dat docs.

Kevin: Ara is a project building distrbuted tools for creators and fans to connect directly, rather than through big platforms that take control and value. We've written open source Node modules and bundled them into an Electron desktop app: the Ara File Manager. Inside are parts of Ethereum and Dat. We also have an ERC20 token, the ARA token. We're interested in testing and improving Dat for use in the consumer setting. More info at https://ara.one/ Thanks!

Kieran: Working on cobox, grant funded by Next EU Ledger project. Focused on using Dat for backup systems for cooperatives, small groups, horizontal orgs, small groups. Back up their data with encryption an distributed networks. WOrking around social relaitonships and trust in communities and their softare. Software component, research, business. Trying to think about commons economics

sam: german company, focused on web search engine, browser firefox port. pushing vision of search and what the browser could be. innivation idea of having Dat in Firefox. web extensions for that. intention to have dat in browser and have dat apps in browser. local first computing, do things client-side for privacy + other cool features.

franz: frando working on archipel / arso. working on tools for digital libraries and archives, coming from grassroots movement background. currently have money from NLNet working on search component. hyperdrive + kappa search engine. bridging dat to search engine, aiming for tool to make it easy for sharing in a network of likeminded user institutions, backup purposes + make easy for small groups to have rich interfaces. working with small groups + partners, similar setting to cobox. intersted in forstering collab in Dat.

alex: live in sweden. got involved w dat in 2017 using hyperdb and working on rotonde. working on cabal, with collective who drop in and out. decentralised slack / IRC. full time dat related stuff for 2020. :raised_hands: also doing a master's thesis on a distributed moderation system which will become part of cabal and released as a set of nodejs modules in january 2020

Peter: ink&switch research lab focused on why comps not designed for users, but for consumers. building local-first sodtware. offline-first. focused onc reativity. led to useing dat as tech stack for documents between collaborators. lab currently running research, working on pushpin, application on local first principles, of which dat is a part.

karissa: digital democracy, non-profit in US built Mapeo - p2p map editor - designed with Indigenous communities in Ecuador / Peru. Open street maps w backend. funded kappa-core and multifeed. Indigenous people take pictures and drop them on map. sync to desktop computer where they can create maps of territories, use maps in defence of territories. all thinking done offline. working on web .. peer, similar to cobox and ... current edge of the work. getting workin in mobile with react native.

Diego: GEUT is a company building products using decenttralised features. working on using Dat. with Wireline, with Liberate Science new project oriented toward scientific/scholarly. collaborate with Dat foundation. Yep! :)

Yosh: since 2015/16. in 2018 got prototype fund in Germay to work on Rust port of hypercore protocol. didnt' get to networking part. got another gran in 2019 with rust which we're far on. building native bindings, hopefully in 2020 we can continue protocol stuff. not quite sure what...

Tony: in sweden, joined community last Christmas, discovered kappa-core! saw interesting trust questions raised through that kind fo swarming. working on hypercore-protocol and extension part kappa-core. continuing research now trying to fix some issues with current v of kappa-core. creting abreact framework to model trust, having 1 pub key but end up with new resources from different peers. trying to reach 1.0, self-funded, doing in spare time.

Paul: started Beaker 3 years ago. been wlrking w Dat since. worked on SSB before. been intersted in moving to new iteration, more like personal computing rather than running on someone else compiter. want to introduce website in browser... build out stack for applications.

mauve: wide range of people in community - businesses, people working in spare time, academic focused, user-focused, and just working on APIs. Great to see the diversity and ideas. that means collabortion would mean different things for different people. idea was just to talk about what you'd like to see if anything from working with others. can we go down list, feel free to talk in chat too and jump in. gonna go backwards. paul, what about beaker?

- What sort of collaboration would you like to see?
paul: been trying to wrap up the next version of beaker for a while. hard to say exactly what we're looking for. making progresss there. generally waiting... once I know I'll reach out!

tony: have wheels in motion, biggest is kappa-core integration with dat sdk. many kappa-core projects end up on side, similar tech but not quite in Dat SDK. not being too focused on my own project, interested in hearing wht people have to say, what people use for kappa-stack, collect feature. no direct requests right now.

mauve: speaking to that, much of the group are using kappa as foundational block. mapeo is, GEUT is using multifeed, cobox is using multifeed in peerfs. archipel kappa-core reflects what people are using. need more third part supoort.

yosh: not immediately

diego: regarding collab... ways to improve the collaboration and communication in different companies. this kind of meeting helps. ... in differetn companies, users, feature that everyone needs, in order to know if everyone needs a feature, we need to speak about it! other thing is, regarding funding opportunities, how can we spread information around funding, ways to articulate that kind of thing, if someone finds funding someone else can use, that'd be great to see.

kieran: mauve you're doing great!!

franz: modularity - want more shared components with eachother.

diego: yes, i guess, maybe we can collaborate on improving documentation, just an idea. companies can put some developer time to achieve a common goal. maybe we can do the same, share efforts to improve an aspect of the documentation or new feature for Dat, etc.

kevin: big win for collab - more compatibility between actual development, e.g. Dat 2.0 SDK, moz and paul, take a Dat and put it into Beaker, start a site in beaker, mirror it with Dat CLI, make links work in ARA desktop manager. compatibility ARA file manager could serve purpose... interested in working w everyone to get done and make ARA compatible.

sam: standardization important so whenever we build things we have compatibility. Dat support in browser. idea: we can expose a port to web applications (beaker did this with Dat archives) or to web extensions, so that electron applications can be just put inside the browser through web extensions. eaasy to add platforms that are able to build ontop of applications that are being built.

kevin: browser support would be awesome. how will browser support come together for Dat?

sam: for firefox, port w firefox, this is working for the Dat v1 stack. experimental APIs in firefox to use for this, only privileged extensions can use this atm. some movement in moilla may allow prototype extensions.

mauve: yes and sam you worked on DatFox which doesnt use libdweb but is a web extension.

sam: yes, using existing APIs not experimental APIs. limitation youave to do Dat stuff in external process. extension communicates to that to load Dat pages. Same approach SSB patchfox uses, and the IPFS companion can use the external IPFs process to reach the network. current limitation is you have to run the dweb itself outside of the browser. with experimental apis you can bring everything inside the browser.

mauve: one of the painpoints new to the ecosystem is it doesnt work in browser of choice. just want to use chrome. extension would be great. based on what hearing from Sam, partially about putting pressure on browser vendors to have these extensions. only firefox has path forward there?

karissa: max had discussion with Brave some years ago, didn't go anywhere. could be picked up again. but still firefox has APIs which is good!

mauve: bit more standardisation on getting Dat to work in web browsers. Stuff with Dat SDK / discovery swarm. pretty sure, IPFS companion doesn't work without a local process, a public gateway.

Kevin: don't have native browser support, combination of gateways, local daemons and developer extensions

mauve: if someone was willing to invest money we could have an extension that just works with traffic over webRTC.

alex: depending on interest, I have friends who run a data center. maybe they'd be willing to do something free of cost to help community.

mauve: finding resources from larger network would be great. projects that are socially driven have talents and ideas but less capital. sharing is eomthing that makes things easier. lets work together! :)

peter: a few thoughts on collab... hypercores are great abstraction that should be exposed more directly. higher level file abstractions are useful, ibut if you pull apart what these projects have in common is the shared immutable pub key address append-only log. Thats the common element. encourage anyone who's thinking about future of Dat to have that at forefront of mind. dont think any projects actually work in the field to a degree that users can rely on. no insults, been at this for 2 1/2 years im included in that. as a community we're spending a lot of time and energy about next steps rather than making things work, a bit disillusioned by that. if you can't use Dat in a coffee shop because wifi config doesn't work, thats a dealbreaker. love to see greater shared understanding of what the common problems are in terms of deployability in the field and usability by end users. been in a call open a Dat url, nothing happening, don't know why, everyone has own debug dashboard, set of common technical challenges, identify them, rally around them, work to fix them. a community would help to bring focus and energy around them.

kevin: fully agree, wonderful to join forces to solve those problems we see, even just measuring analytics, so we can see that things work most fo the time, that'd be huge!

mauve: stability issue... geting hypercore integrated in FS abstraction, mathias and paul been thiking about this. poaul interested in talking about performance improvements coming downwire?

paul: wanna say idea of pulling out hypercores makes sense... HARD TO HEAR! :) new version of hyperdrive, scale and performance, really good, great ... round trip efficiency when dealing with networks. every file flat folder structure. mounting system is a feature of next hyperdrive - nice way to interact with hypercores. hyperdrive mounts are a way to symlink, mount a drive to a subfolder of another drive. using that in beaker to create a file system, all different drives you can map to your root hyperdrive to track them. nothing stopping you mounting hypercores in the same way. file system a top-level abstraction, mount them to some location, appear as a file, like a socket file in unix, program uses it.

mauve: another part thats interesting is hyperswarm, supposed to be addressing a lot of connectivity issues...

peter?: good news, just merged hyperswarm into pushpin. as of yesterday, now on hyperswarm. exicted as I am terrified. paul may be relevant to your interestesd. connection multiplexing. big deal for project with a lot of hypercores.

paul:

peter: lots of hyperdrives swarming on all of them, opeing a separate socket for each one. took lots of work to get down to just 1 connection per peer for a variety of reasons.

paul: yes we should talk about that, capability system for multiplexing, mainly dealing with mounts, introduced multiplexing into connection. definitively some material been done, not sure how general it is.

telamon: multiplexing hypercores... one of big challenges.

peter: 9000 hypercores in main directory

telamon: are you replicating all at same time? kills the wifi okay. same behaviour in cabal. too many hypercores to get the app started. thats a big challenge

peter; take a look at hypermerge, you'll see, this is where maybe someday we'll get to use a cuckoo filter, relatively small nuber of stable peers, even in beaker,

telamon: not using hyperdrives, using hypercores

peter: when you conenct to peer, you send list of dicvoery keys, they sned, you multiplex over same socket.

telamon: same thing I'm researching!

peter: look at hypermerge! just landed yesterday.

alex: quick q to peter, in cabal when we have 500 hypercores, constant loading time for any hypercore. how does that perform?

peter: honestly, these problems are pushing me away from using Dat at all because... when nothing works, this is what I mean. when you get user-scale, you quickly run into walls, liabilities, performance problems. lack of focus on fixing these, eager to work through these problems, working o them every day. registry of metadata in a sqlite db, don't have to load every core unless soemone asks for it.

karissa: having that many cores an issue, original intent not to have 9000 cores, having many hypercores you have isses.  improvements on hypercore has to be community led. mathias is focusing on hyperdrive improvements. that people are working, this is a good sign.

noffle's here! everyone cheers

noffle: sorry I'm late, I messed up, only have a little bit of knowledge of ssb, use append-only logs like hypercores, manages to sync thoughsand between peers, wondering if something can be gained into doing some research into how ssb is replicating so efficiently.

peter?: just at offline camp, great convos w IPFS + SSB. SSB makes you download GBs of data to participate.you win some lose some.

noffle: also do that, but we seem to do a worse job. epidemic broadcast trees, remembers what logs, do an incremebtal handshake.

peter: doing that now in hypermerge.

mauve: would be good to have that closer to the core of the protocol.

peter: related epidemic issue, its useful to know when your peers were, so for cabal, if you know someone saw someone, then you could tell that someone had the chat message. cabal could even surface that. does noffle know that this convo happened? ah yes, a peer noffle-like has that data. great!

mauve: performance is a big deal, what are the big action items at a later meeting (performance meeting).

sam: yes, wanted to come back to network reliability that was brought up. most of you are working with node networking stack for Dat. works well in node but had experience of trying to shim node networking stack to run in gecko? introduced loads of issues, assumption about how node networking works, things to consider when we build a more robust network stack, think about how to amke this work across runtimes and across platforms. local area network discovery on dat uses a non-standard address which causes problems when you try to use .... just work if you forecast right stuff, doesnt work with Dat so you cant use. this is an issue for Dat in Gecko because you cannot listen for these events, firefox exposes an APi but it follows the standard, need to improve reliability, but follow norms and standards, more likely to work if we follow existing convention.

mauve: making it work in multiple environments important, using node or electron... more usecases now that need to be represented. obvs biased want to get Dat working on web.

alex: ideas for collaboration .. if we turn to the human side of things what enables imo collaboration is meeting people at events IRL. DTN was great for that. enabled me to PR to dat-dns and know I wasn't wasting my time. support for people to get to events. and planning around...

peter: shout out to a local-first meetup (thats not specifically Dat) tonight in SanFran at Mozilla office

alex: ..stuff like that, foundational to having fruitful collaboration, we're all so busy with stuff. another thing is like to have acknowledgement of what will land in hypercore and other foundational repos. personally haven't tried to PR anything, some of the big things such as hyperswarm, there are lingering PRs people have put lots of effort into, unclear why they've been abandoned. Just knowing how / if we can PR. e.g. would be be great to see ipv6 landed in discovery swarm, people could use cabal over mesh nets. related issue for hyperswarm https://github.com/hyperswarm/dht/issues/1 _(post convo edit: i was confusing discovery-swarm with this webtorrent repository https://github.com/webtorrent/bittorrent-dht/issues/88, see pull requests longer down the thread)_

noffle: agree with alex! seeing hypercore under mafintosh feels strange. want to contribute, but it puts lots on mathias for maintenance ontop of what he';'s already working on.

karissa: +1

mauve: more of this stuff belonging to community would be great! ont thing I'd like is adding collaboratotrs to repos I've been working on, give people more agency. v powerful. part of what I'd like to see from us collabing. more peopel having agency in development of the protocol. less of a bottleneck - a more decentralised power dynamic! :) how we get there is something we won't find today, but i like that's been brought up.

one simple way of addressing that, just put a contributing bit on the repo, saying we accept contributions, or we don't.

mauve: i think we do accept, so much is built on-top of hypercore, if we have dangling forks that aren't maintained, it just all ends up being a mess! :) goes back to standardising and reusing stuff across projects. no place we can pool our resources together, all end up remaking the same thing. when started wotking on Dat SDK, constantly reinventing things... big question is content encryption. we have ciphercore. we have encryption library from ARA. different projects will or won't use it, introduce compatibility, reusable code for this, we are community, we figure out contribution, then we release them. a contribution guide is very important. i don't think 'we dont accept contributions' is a good idea for foundational pieces.

sam: point is that the absence of a contributing section / readme is people aren't sure, so the solution is to put one there, and this is how you do it.. speak to people about idea, see if they like it.

paul: varied feelings about this... dont think that mathias or andrew or anyone working on next version of Dat has been against contribution, but that requires lots of co-ordination. Don't fully share perspective, its not they'r unwiling, part of disfunction of people having poor priotity going to them. dont entirely agree with premise, want to make better.

frando: v much agree w alex its immensely useful to meet people and hack togheter irl. really we should do that. like a Dat in 2020 event great idea. with regards to Dat SDK, it'd be nice to get to talking how some of the kappa-core oriented tools can integrate with that. we're sitting inbetween, we're using hyperdrive in the back. potential for pulling these things together. what telamon is doing with decentstack should enable that, if projects agree on the future to use shared base libraries that manager hypercore / hyperdrive, shared dev tools, share debug tools we could all benefit there. its hahrd to build out these debugging dev tools its ots of work. sidelined behind the main thing. that i'd be interested in. we've been talking with cobox recently, similarity is using a nodejs classic web interface talking over http. not running in browser, shared tools around that that could extend into a hyperdrive http api. that might be something interesting for hyperdrive daemon. UI around that, shared tools. together with cobox we're doing a hackathon in Berlin in Nov/Dec, hit us up!

Kieran: Working with Frando to share resources for the front-end, planning APIs in similar ways. Particularly interested in Telamohn's work. Replication permissions, who accesses what, authentication. Like to have an easy way to meet up and share knowledge / resources. Documentation / learning is difficult.

mauve: hypercore-protocol working group, DEP - dat enhancement proposal - egreeing how stuff works. re http interfaces, one standarised, bunch of new features, formally defined. cool to bring in greater community to find/define these things. similar needs

Kieran: One of the things we found, was encountering new projects and seeing things in bits, all trying to weave things together but end up reproducing effort. It'd be good to have shared knowledge. Having a map of the ecosystem, tools, stuff people built. It'd be easier to piece things together if we have a broad view of what people are working on. COnstantly encountering new things with exiwting work

mauve: map +1, SDK - have a place to start, modules that work, etc. good docs, first pass, put together examples, lets have another call for doc-building specifically.

kieran: Code collaboratin is hard, easy wins: meetups, conversations, breakout convos and derive common protocols

kevin: just wondering where everyone's at, collabing on documentation.

sam: already mentioned on collab. other point that hasn't come up is platform support, tied to node ecosystem, particular problem on IOS. see there's still stuff to go on that. not sure how Dat v2 poushes that back further? andriod is tricky, have to do node, its clunky. good to have stuff we can use everywhere.

mauve: lets go to how often should we meet

joe: like to add... where the issue is with collaboration, people come in and out, someone starts something, hard to continue, everony'e identified pain points, curious to see if ther's on area / focus and through trial and error, what does the collab look like? lets ship a thing as a community and see what happens. lets we could take on, hard to get to where we are now, what are the smaller steps and move forward, rather than discuss the big issues. +1 to documetation always a great area for collab

kieran: :+1:!!

noffle: thanks mauve! hmm 1 thing I've been working on w DD, is trying to get progress API, having a way for start thinking with a peer, before I do this, i'll download this many blocks, upload, useful for communicating to users, making sure things aren't frozen. so much data that it could ake several minutes to sync. w cabal, initial sync seems like app is not-responsive. SSB is having this too! we're all gonna hit that. lets collaborate on seeing that it looks like. all taking different approaches to multiple hypercores.

Kieran: A lot of stuff in P2P are suited best for smaller scales, maybe we should aim for apps with a smaller scale and smaller amounts of users data - more piecemeal sections

mauve: talk about that in cabal recently. issues w hypercore loading hard to boot main cabal.

karissa: well hypercore already has a progress API, horrible thing about they're doing stuff in field, noone has stuff that works in the field, there's progress but all the edge cases when dealing with users, backing up.. there's for the past 6 years its been research lab. operating as a research lab. all the pieces that have some out of research, science funding, OSS modules all over the place. how can we transition from research lab model to a production software toolkit. thats the challenge we're facing. lots of approaches to this. researching how other software tools have gone through this process. different models of doing it. right now dat foundation, still accepting grants and donations. through the Dat foundation we can have a plaform for companies and orgs using the software toolkit something thats more tangible that everyone can use. place for contracting companies or products that build on top of this tech that want to ingreteae with those technologies. people are moving towards this, inevitability of theevolution of this software. who wants to potentially be part of some sort of... of a development group of some sort. think about how we can go from 100 research oriented devs to a production usecase to the next 1000 devs. something that some don't care about, thats fine, those who do, lets talk. feel free to reach out.

noffle: [self-redacted]

mauve: thanks for sharing and vulnerability. this has been a motivating factor in getting everyone together, not knowing whats going on, doesn't feel good. why we're all here together. we all want to work together. all want to feel good about this. talking about this and what we need in the first step is the first step in building the power dynamic we want, having healthy relationship to the code part of our ecosystem. thanks!

karissa: thanks! its late! wanted to talk int his meeting about adding no more people so we don't have to do another round of introductions. not gonna get everything in 1 call.

mauve: been a good call! acquainted with each others' projects, lots of knowledge sharing been done in this hour and a half. propose we meet in 2 weeks from now.

sam: out for whole of november

mauve: thanks for the notes kieran!


k: :heart:

mauve: will put together a summary of what people are thinking about / experiencing, send out in thread. get conversation started on the thread, figure out a topic for next time. lots to cover, maybe one per meeting. thanks for taking time out to meet. happy with the turn out, lets grow the ecosystem

kieran: mauve you're a great facilitator!! :)


karissa: topics we didn't get to:
- What sorts of resources do you have that you could contribute? (developer time, $$, docs, code)
- What constitutes membership in the foundation?
- What do groups get from foundation membership?
but maybe other agenda items..
maybe now others can offer other agenda topics too
e.g., power dynamics discussion


# Dat Consortium Meeting #1 - Notes

## Ideas for collaboration

- better support for hypercore based data structures
    - kappa-core integration with the Dat SDK
    - decentstack with the SDK
    - Support in Beaker
- improve communication between groups
    - share info about funding opportunities
    - put developer time towards shared goals
- figure out shared needs / features
    - share more components with each other
    - work on documentation
    - more compatibility / standardization
- Dat 2.0 in SDK / ETC
- Dat support in Browser (web extensions)
    - Collaborate with browsers?
- performance improvements
- Meet up IRL (Dat conf, sponsor peopel to attend other confs)
- Replication permissions (Authentication)
- Map of how all the parts fit together
- More platform support
- Finding "health" of a hypercore
-