# Dat Consortium Meeting 29

**2020-Dec-09 Wed**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
3pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20201209T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- Diego (facilitator)
- Martin
- Paul
- Kevin
- Franz
- Nina


## Agenda Items
- OC migration updates
- continue reviewing the manifesto (https://hackmd.io/N2dFrSfxQbSP1nD94WC6RA)
- ?

## Notes

- People Updates
    - GEUT still working on the permanent seeder and in taking some time apart to work on some internal products/ideas
    - Kevin, still working on ARA updating some things to the latest versions
    - Paul, beaker 1.0 out !!! working on a new CLI tool, some sort of swiss army knife, gonna replace the old dat cli somehow. Also starting some work around new uplink project, a file manager for the hyper space. Web and desktop.
    - Martin, been working on ts definitions for hyper stack (mainly for streamx codec). Aside been working with mauve on a decentralized permission system.
    - franz, got back to work on sonar. Working on a new branch using the dat-sdk (now branded as hyper-sdk). Also did some work that uses hyperspace. Also working on a bot for sonar. Did some work on a experiment called [`hyproxy`](https://github.com/Frando/hyproxy) to easily proxy hyper/http.

### OC migration

*quoting e-mail from joe hand until next line*

---
I wanted to start a new thread to discuss our options for IP and moving forward; I removed the OC folks while we decide on a path and since it seems clear that them holding IP is not happening immediately.

After talking with our lawyers, Danielle and I have a better understanding of the choices. Since we cannot transfer IP, we have to either continue holding it or make it public domain. It also means CSS faces potential liabilities associated with holding those. There are a few major classes of IP and it helps to just talk about the path forward for each.

    Trademark, Logo, Name, etc.
    Software
    Domains

I've outlined some options below that hopefully would let us move forward quickly without waiting on legally transferring assets while minimizing our future liability; and hopefully making sure this process is transparent and beneficial for the Dat community. Let me know what you think or if you have any questions.

Best,
Joe


Trademarks, Logo, etc. - CSS would make these public domain (CC0) to all extent possible. We never tried to register the "Dat" trademark, so not sure what'd happen there but I think it's less of a concern since the protocol name changed.

    Action by CSS: Explicitly license assets and other work as CC0
    Action by you: Nothing

Software - CSS would continue to hold the copyright for anything written and copyrighted to Dat while at CSS. But it could be relicensed to another organization or individual since most of these are MIT.

    Action by CSS: Check licensing for work done by Dat, make sure that all assets are licensed
    Action by you: Be aware of how to relicense and potential issues with license stacking


Domains - CSS would continue to hold and manage all old domains, the project would be moved to a new domain. This is probably the hardest part - what to do with websites that are being used and with the various outdated or unused websites. If we can't legally transfer the domains that puts us in a difficult place to still own them but let you manage them.

Instead, I'd propose to "retire" some of the old websites (e.g. dat.foundation, datprotocol.com, blog.datproject.org) by putting prominite links to the new site, the open collective, and a short explanation of the history of the project/current status. And sites that are actively used (e.g. comm-comm.datproject.org) can be redirected to the new domain).

    Action by CSS: Set up "retired" pages that direct to your new domain, transfer ownership of any services as necessary
    Action by you: Set up a new domains for new work on the project

There are a lot of places Dat domains and CSS are intertwined because they were set up concurrently. And I still maintain control of a lot of those services. By moving to a new site, this would allow the project to purposefully and freely set up new infrastructure that is better suited to the needs while not waiting on us to transfer/shut things down. However, I'd be happy to move ownership of anything that is still used but not tied to the domains or CSS directly (e.g. Github org).


---

Reaction:
- Martin: maybe we can change the name. Are they ok to rename gh org?
- Franz: I think gh org wont be part of the "domain". We can include that as question.
- paul: do we have a list of all the domains...?
- franz: dont think so, we can create one now.
- paul: regarding domains, go 1 by 1 and think how we can redirect, then decide if goes to dat-consortium or hyper-protocol. Just an example idea/proposal.
- franz: there is may be some infra to manage. There may be some old discovery servers... We should if there are other things running and if they need to keep on running.
- TODO: ping mathias.
- franz: coming back to trademark, im ok to release it as public domain or to transfer to another org using MIT.
- martin: im ok with the transfer. maybe we need to mention it is a fork.
- franz: we can give joe the OK then
- paul: mathias update. Maybe max and joe are running some of these.
- franz/martin: some parts of old dat are not working anymore since the discovery servers could be offline. Not getting a ping from the domains pasted here
- martin: summary, trademark -> public domain, code relicensed
- nina: feeling/sensations check. How do you feel about this?

### dat manifesto and community

- paul: the manifesto could be helpful here.
- nina: we should not dissasemble the community. We should have that into account.
- paul: the consortium should be in place when money gets involved. So hypotetically if that happens, it would be good to have this prepared (from the community perspective). Also this is a good place for sharing common vission/updates.
- nina: something I'd like to make clear to myself. how to support each other if everything is around hyper? I'd like to understand how hypercore-protocol see the rest of the community. Can we count with you (hypercore-protocol)?
- martin: we all need each other. We all need to survive. If you need us (paul, maf) just tell us. Personally, consento is running out of funds now. We are trying to do a product-fit. We appreaciate stability in the core system.
- paul: appreaciate the help. We are low on funds. The whole ecosystem has value. I focus the last year only on beaker and miss some other oportunities. As a community we need to improve our usage/getting some place with our work. The only concern I have is that we expand our user base. We are fine on finances. Regarding not rewriting the stack all the time, I think we have one last big of changes in the road related to multi-writer. Hopefully we will reach feature completeness at some point.
- franz: thanks for the update paul. For me also, the past year was quite stressful with all the stack changes. But I'm also now getting the feeling with regards to sonar that things are getting stable. with hyperspace and the latest add to hypercore it looks like we are getting closer to be more stable. For multiwriter it would be nice if the discussion about this would be upfront. Like to have some roadmap maybe.
- paul: understand the bad feeling around breaking changes. We dont want to go that road again. gonna push mathias to be sure we have a good plan to migrate into the new changes.
- nina: from datdot we are working with really tight funds. It would be great to communicate better to empower each other because of lack of communication. eg: having a map of things that we are solving.
- martin: one thing I can add was going over the general manifesto. Sharing tech goals. I know it is hard for anyone.
- franz, nina: let's do a workshop and draw a big map of projects and modules and stuff, sometime in january or feburary

*Domains*

- dat.foundation
- datprotocol.com
- datproject.org (redirects to dat.foundation)

*Running things*
- [dat.foundation](https://dat.foundation) website
- datprotocol.com stub site
- awesome.datproject.org
- [docs.dat.foundation](https://docs.dat.foundation/)
- [blog.datproject.org](https://blog.datproject.org/)
- [https://comm-comm.datproject.org](https://comm-comm.datproject.org) - dead :skull:
- [https://dat.discourse.group/](https://dat.discourse.group/) - dead :skull:
- discovery servers for dat1 - all dead :skull:

```
var DEFAULT_DISCOVERY = [
  'discovery1.datprotocol.com',
  'discovery2.datprotocol.com'
]
var DEFAULT_BOOTSTRAP = [
  'bootstrap1.datprotocol.com:6881',
  'bootstrap2.datprotocol.com:6881',
  'bootstrap3.datprotocol.com:6881',
  'bootstrap4.datprotocol.com:6881'
]

```
([link](https://github.com/datproject/dat-swarm-defaults/blob/master/index.js))


## Action Items
- review email from joe and prepare answer
    - maybe migration wg can prepare a draft and share it with the group.


## Next facilitator

- Kevin

