# Dat Consortium Meeting 21

Tue 2020-08-18, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants

* Paul Frazee
* Andrew
* Nina Breznik
* Martin Heidegger
* Franz
* Kevin
* Mauve

## Action items

- Martin will summarize the add/remove discussion
- Mauve: We should talk about late starts
- Kevin/ Nina next facilitators

## Next Agenda items

- Discuss the CLI
- Continue th add/remove talks
- Online COmmunity consolidation talks

## Agenda Items

- Status: Transfer to Open Collective
- Discuss the CLI
- (How to) Add/Remove members to this group?

    Pain Point: There is no system how to invite members to this group.

    - How can we invite people?
    - Do we need a Code of Conduct?

- Online Community Consolidation

    Pain Point: The community is spread apart into many channels and we should maybe consolidate those to catch more people and have less chat clients / discussion boards that need to be checked.

    How to deal with Chat?

    - Should there be an effort to consolidate the chat systems into one?  (Gitter, Discord, IRC?)
    - Should we "archive" the irc/gitter dat channels? (redirect the people to hyper?)
    - Should we advertise the hyper discord on the dat page?
    - Should we advertise the Cabal chat on the dat page?
    - Should we redirect people to one?

## Notes

### Updates

Staring with check-ins/updates

Paul: 4 weeks mark on major updates on Beaker. Close but not quite. Quietly working on having identifiers inside of a browser to be able to create micro blog posts.

Solving issues with types (beaker/blogpost) to start agregating schemas.

Trying to solve the problem with what people can do inside of Beaker out of the box => to subscribe to hyperdrives etc.

Andrew:
Beetree, similar to trie, so a new db structure Mathias is workin on. You can store indexes. So we're trying to use it in Beaker (for a crawler).

Exciting stuff :)

Mauve: Any specific use case for Hyperbee?

Andrew: Databases on top of hypercore. It opens a door to new database structures (like couch db etc.)

Martin: Hyperbee - any ideas about using it for a deduplication?

Andrew: Would be good, but no one is now immediatelly working on it.

Paul: Hyperbee brings out results in order, not randomly like hypertrie does.

Franz: Busy with my other job :) I have not much updates, was talking to Paul about schema indexing and to see how we could use Beaker metadata in Sonar, was also working a bit on dat rust thing, but going to holidays next week...

Kevin: Ara same as before, but in my free time I was working on a project using Beaker API, something similar to Blabla blog.
Question for Andrew - if you build a Beaker based app, how can two instances of this app communicate with each other?


Andrew: Shared drive between the two, to coordinate the messages or to use peersockets or peer services, would need to think more about that, but there could be options.

Martin: Finished the Dat conference, if you look at the event page it has a review where we share our findings. It's quite long. We also went through all the videos and I had to fix 2-3 because they were broken. Mine is still not finished, hopefully soon.

There will be a technical review of how we did it = recap that we want to send out to the media (?).

Personally, I was working on Consento, to bring it up to date etc.

Nina: Finished first datdot milestone. Made a basic structure with most important roles in the system. Figured out that we need additional roles to make the system more robust and secure. Adding this in the code. Using Mauve's p2plex module to communicate and pass data between the roles. Next, thinking about how to sustain the project and the business model. Had calls with other projects to see what they're doing. More or less this.

Mauve: Been working on Natakanu and started working a bit on Consento's react native test environment to see all will be working as it should. Trying to put stuff Martin already did into stand alone CLI. https://github.com/consento-org/rn-tape

Multi hyperdrive - reading multiple hyperdrives at ones. Similar to kappa drive, it does way less. But I would like to write a multi hyperdrive writer for Natakanu. https://github.com/RangerMauve/multi-hyperdrive

Also working on Agregore.

Was talking to Leslie from ... who's also working on react native stuff.

Fetch API for hyper and other protocols. Will be working on how to figure out how to merge gateway and ...

Checking out Gemini browser


### Agenda:
- transfering foundation stuff from CSS&S
- CLI
- add/remove members to this group (online community consolidation)

Suggest we move CLI discussion to the next call, since Karissa is not here today.


Martin: Suggestion to close the room 5min past the time when Consortium should start, so those who show up on time have enough time for discussion and others then sadly have to stay out.

Mauve: Maybe let's discuss this on email to see if all agree

Transfer update:
There are funds on CS&S so we're trying to get funds over to Open collective and to set up a governance structure to be able to use the funds.

Danielle wants us to sign a contract with the Open Collective that OC will take over stuff from CSS&S.

We need to change to the new fiscal sponsor.

After that funds will be transferred but we don't have this governance structure to see how someone can propose

Paul: That's a lot of progress since two weeks, good job. Appreciate that.

Mauve: Lots of emails and juggling stuff, but that's not much compared to how to figure out the governance structure.

Next discussion: how to remove add members

Paul: Maybe this is part of governance discussion so maybe we could start with governance.

Martin: Maybe we could start first with one part since we can't tackle whole governance issue.

Paul: Maybe we could us this as an entry point into how we do things.

Franz: Membership will be about 2 things:
- what is this group
- second, what is Foundation's role or what it's going to be

Martin: How to remove members - maybe we need code of conduct and we can remove people if they violate this CoC.

Adding: maybe voting. If all agree, people can be added.

Paul: Maybe to share how Dat working group did this. There was a list of active members. In the group we did all the communication in the chat so others could read and participate, but only members had the voting rights.

https://github.com/datprotocol/working-group#wg-membership-process

New member is nominated by one existing member. For acceptance there needed to be all votes minus one.

Member voting and not organizational voting.

Nina: Question. I remember you mentioned that this was a disfunctional group. What was disfunctional, waht didn't work and what worked, what would you transfer?

Pfrazee: It got disfunctional from people falling off from participation. Late 2019 attendence was at half, fell down to 2 of us. Wouldn't blame the structure, could avoid the possiblity of zombie members blocking votes. E.g. 2 people aren't around and we can't vote them out, that could be something to protect against. Maybe a rule for attendence requirement? Like if you don't attend you're in probation.

Martin: Just a thought - this could be part of the code of conduct and absense is a ridge of conduct.

Franz: Not sure if I agree with that. And I'd like to see CoC to not be a 'law' but more of set of norms, so I would like to perceive this a code of conduct violation.

Maybe we could have yearly membership review or something.

Martin: Why I thought about it as a CoC violation is to help us practise to make sure CoC rules are being respected. It can be argued that - as important person - making someone wait is an abuse of power: It takes away time from the other attendees. It's maybe a bit experimental but maybe would be interesting.

Mauve: This would maybe be good so we could all think what we would like to see.

Could we summarize what process we should set up for removing and adding members. What Paul suggested felt ok to me, what do others feel about this.

Martin will summarize this and then we can continue the discussion next time. And we should also think about being late.We could also add this to the follow up email

Who wants to facilitate next time? Kevin, would you feel confortable? Kevin and Nina as a fallback if Kevin can't join.

Martin: http://www.openstenoproject.org/ project that teaches you how to make notes. If someone is interested in how we can improve this <3

