# Dat Consortium Meeting 16

Wed 2020-06-10, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants
- Andrewosh
- Martin
- Franz
- Paul
- Nina
- Mauve

## Action item review

## Agenda items

 - Dat event
 - Goals for community
 - CS&S talk, where we want to go?

## DAT Event Update

- Our mailing list can not be maintained by CS&S anymore. Diego will receive the current mailinglist
    entries for us to create a new mailing list setup. We intend to set this up within the next two weeks.
    We would love to have support by a separate community member in order for that knowledge to not be stuck
    with us.
- In the CfP we received the request from [resonate.is](https://resonate.is) to "Access / introduction to funding! We're a global community co-op" and
    we would like to support that wish. We intend to choose and invite individuals we know from CS&S and/or
    [fundingbox](https://fundingbox.com/) to hold a workshop or give a presentation at the event. - nina: web3 foundation connection.
- In the CfP we received the request from [playproject](https://playproject.io) in which they ask for other project to join a workshop creating a "community-map" highlighting the relationship between the projects (technically). We are looking for "Aye"'s at the call and support by us.
- We intend to host additional comm-comms at different times for presenters Q&A. To be announced next week, for answering questions about for the presenters.
- Call to action: We prepared a form for supporters that support "non-financially" to be published on the website - please fill it out: [supporters form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdm6Hh1CBtNZj_n_UaTwFUYYnvmeA4r2Nfb3jmhoTypMcETRQ/viewform)
- We received a price for BBB hosting, and its a bit more than we expected. We are thinking on adding a ticket/support system on open collective.

## Discussion

### Dat Event talk

- Martin: Added notes about update. We have a CoC now on the homepage. We're having slow progress on the website design. Nice small things, update moore next week. Imortant about mailing list, Diego was working on getting a newsletter out, contacte CS&S, jhand said they will do it this time but we need different ways to do emails, will get current subscribers. Will need to set up own mailing system.
- Pfrazee: TO clarify, it's different from the risueup one we use for the consortium
- Martin: Yes, it's for the newsletter. If you're interested in the newsletter, it'd be good to have another person that knows how it's set up. So if one person isn't there another can do it. Put your name and contact info. Got more proposals for presentations. Still a few unwritten ones. Would like to bring two here. Nina and Alex would like to make a community map to highlight relationships of projects, what tech do they share, how do they work and interact wiht each other. It'd be good if many people from the consortium could attend. Before we add this to the schedule it'd be nice to get a yae or nae from people here if they're willing to contribute. Will start to work on the schedule this week. Second request is from Resonate, a coop working with cobox. They asked for an intro to funding, since several projects here are grant supported, we though it ould be a good idea to contact CS&S and Funding box, or Mozilla, to have a presentation at the event where we try to get intros to funding opportunities.
- Pfrazee: I'm not against, but not sure if I can add to the conversation beyond getting an angel investor. DO we have resources to provide projects like that.
- Martin: CS&S is helping projects with funding, maybe they could share their understanding. The funding box is a group in EU that's looking for projects, so maybe they can share info. As an idea for you specifically or angel investor money, that could also be useful.
- Nina: Been thinking about all these foundations, like blockchain foundations giving out grants, or mozilla. THey usually have the funds and then we apply and then they check who we are. Maybe we could reverse it and we could invite them to present what they are offering or searching for and tell us what we can apply for. Maybe reverse the rolls a little bit.
- Martin: That's what we were thinking. Diego and I were preparing emails. Saying it's an event where they could participate and mutually benefit.
- Nina: COuld connect to web3 foundation so you don't have to do cold calls. Put me in the loop, I can help out.
- Martin: For many presentations, we have additional comm comms at different times than the usual to talk about the presentations, how the setup will look like. We'd like to put a call to action with the supporting orgs on the event page. It's probably all those that are already on the page, but we thought it'd be a good idea to showcase those that are attending with their logo present on the page so we can say that we're getting supported by them. For that we prepared a small form, it'd be nice if you could fill it out. We intend to do this unless someone speaks up, so speak up if you have issues with it. Last point: Diego talked with Ben Lau from Hypha, doing Big Blue Button hosting, they're hosting an event end of june (OPEN 2020), he gave a price range for how much it would host for 100-200 people, it'd be quite a lot, a surprising amount considering that we have a backup system ready. It was like 5k or something like that. In previous meetings we thought about how open collective has event specific collections. Another friend created an even and used it as a ticket system. We think it'd be good to use a ticket system on open collective, you pay nothing but you get a ticket just saying you're there. We have sponsor tickets as well. This can be used with open collective, gets a bit into the next topics.
- Paul: Wanted to talk about distributed camp, it was done on a minimal budget, mainly through zoom, twitch to broadcast, discord for persistant chat. I'd be happy to pick organizers brain if we want to find something which is cheaper, or connect y'all to talk about it.
- Martin, the connection would be nice. Franz knows more about this. Having a conversation sounds like a good idea.
- Franz: Also in contact with another collective that does BBB hosting. Will report back and talk about it again.
- Martin: There are smaller things happening, one question was how to promote the event in the current times. Should we put any announcements or info out. Not to sound insensitive to what is happening in the world.
- Mauve: Could be good to talk about the stuff happening before talking about it.
- Martin: Not sure how many PoC people we have in the community, could be good to talk about it more.
- Nina: Maybe we can invite people, more women, people of colour. We could actively reach out and find somebody that's inpsiring, doesn't have to necessarily be techy. We all know at least one person, so we could reach out.
- Martin: Will try to connect to Japanese community. As far as female audience, Nina is the only active member at the moment. Part of the code of conduct is the addresses of people to reach out to, right now it's all males. Would be good to have a female voice in there too.
- Nina: Also think about the language, we work with a lot of Taiwanese people and their english isn't as good as mine, maybe we could have a track in Chinese. It's another way to be more diverse, maybe have a couple of talks. Just thinking.
- Franz: I think with different languages, we could encourage it by saying it's possible. To the general thing, I think it'd be good to do more outreach, especially in these times. Maybe a subgroup could meet and talk about it.
- Martin: Didn't intend to reach coclusions, but wanted to raise awareness. If you have means to support us, please do. If you want to organize things in other languages, it'd probably be spanish, german, chinese. PLease invite people from your communities to the CFP. That's all about the Dat event, if you have questions, ask now.

### Community

- Pfrazee: Been sending an email to Danielle to talk more about CS&S. Topic of the conversation is pretty broad. Talk about the community, what it's purpose is
- Nina: Thinking about last time when there was a discussion about IP. Wondering if hypercore-protocol plans to make any legal structure to take the IP over. We either need to form something together or some other solution.
- Pfrazee: hypercore-protocol is technically two companies, Blue Link Labs and Hyperdivision. It'd be nice to have a separate entity for the hypercore protocol. Definately not in time for the CS&S stuff
- Mauve: Is there a time limit?
- Paul: My sense is that they don't want to wait.
- Franz: Could you talk more about updates from CS&S?
- Paul: Asking questions over email, all to say at the moment.
- Martin: This question is mostly towards the deciders in the community. Beaker and hyperdivision. Calling them this because they're doing most of the code and most of the work. They're the people leading this in any way or shape. How do you see this organization? How would you like us to work together in the future.
- Pfrazee: The main thing I want for the dat community to be able to accomplish is to make sure the tech built on top of it doesn't get dominated by hypercore and beaker. With the move to the hypercore-protocol was to make those primitives specifically about that. So that all these other projects can still have this space to make actions that are broader.
- Andrewosh: THere's a lot of tech overlap between the projects in this group, lots of stuff that could be shared and work that could be done. That should be the focus, us participating with bridging and helping with technical stuff or changes that could be made in the core.
- Martin: Here's how it sounds like, this is kinda unfiltered. Please don't take it as rude. It sounds to me like you want to keep the control but let others do the work. Power without responsability. I know the hypercore-protocol and the work that was done in the dat foundation was done to organize this as an open source effort. Now the control is going back in that direction. Why didn't you excert leadership within the dat foundation, and why do you think it is different now?
- Paul: What we did was separated out hypercore from the dat foundation. We did that because personally I didn't feel like I was in a position to take leadership. There was a formal structure for who was leading the foundation, and the community was pretty flat, didn't seem like taking leadership was an option. We decided to take the pieces that require leadership and do them that way, but not affect the design of the consortium which is much more flat.
- Andrew: I can only speek personally, most of my work is going into the dev process. We have a strong idea of what should go into hyperdrive-daemon, that's been my priority, to be working on that. Not to say that community participation isn't important, feedback is important. But at the same time there's people that care enormouusly about making the community the focus. For me it's moving things into the hypercore protocol and making a small group helps us work on this small effort. My focus has always been on the work and the modules.
- Nina: My question would be, what was limiting the technical team behind hypercore inside the dat foundation structure and what was the vision. What were the limitations what were the new opportunities so we can align.
- Paul: We had a working group and decision making strucutre. That worked for a time, gradually became defunct, only remaining active members were Paul, Mathias and Karissa. Karissa was going off to do more digidem things. That formal thing came to a state of rot. Even then we were still doing devleopment. For most of 2019 we were doing a long dev cycle with the new hyperswarm and hypercore. Lots of debate on priorities. We wanted multiwrier, had hyperdb, but the development was fruitless so instead focused on performance in hypertrie. Moved multiwriter down as a priority. Led to debates on what to upstream. In many ways the move was to move to an org structure that wasn't defunct and to match what we felt was the most productive ways to do it which is for Mathias to make the ultimate tehcnical decisions.
- Andrew: Practically it doesn't translate to much of a change given how dev has been happening the past while. I've seen Dat to just be group of people coming together and sharing ideas and building on a common foundation. I think the common foundation, hypercore an hyperdrive has been largely done by mathias. There's been friction when it came to PRs, just needs more clear channels. As far as the organization it's been the implicit model, I don't see it as a massive change.
- Franz: I think it's a good way to think about it. To not take the tech and org side as 1 to 1. As I see it there's the process on the tech stuff, there's the hypercore protocol org, the main authors set up a new governence structure for the core code. We have to see and eval stuff together to see how the process will work. But as andrew said it's the same as before. THe other side is the org side where a lot of things aren't existing anymore. The dat foundation doesn't really exist at the moment. The important question for this group is to think about whether there's a need or a use for a new org structure. There's some sort of dat foundation bits, there's some money. It's not not really a tech question. It's more like, do we have a use for this foundation. I think it can be useful to have such an org to get funding collaboration or docs or workshops and to work on the stuff in an organized way. Do we want to have such an org, or do people think that's not something that's needed. If we do want it, we'll need to talk about the basic structure. We need an advisory comitte and some sort of process for changing who's on it. Next question is staying with CS&S or another fiscal sponsor. This should be a pragmatic decision after we decide if we want this.
- Paul: I agree that we need to figure out whether we want to set up another formal org or to stay with CS&S. I get the feeling CS&S isn't super into us. Asking for funding requirements that are hard to set up right now. Don't want to cut off the convos, but wanted to talk to Martin about taking responsilbity, funding wise I haven't been able to do payroll so I can't do much, but is there ways we've been dropping the ball on participation? Not trying to drop responsability there.
- Martin: The problem with running orgs is the decision process. Everyone understands how funding is tricky and all that. I think it should be clear that we respect the effort that has been put into bringing the project forward, would like to highlight the work by Mathias, lots of respect. As far as responsibility, it's about embodying the leadership, which is to say if there is a decision coming up like dropping dns lookup, which is used by many othher projects and Beaker is the de-facto project. If the project is changing the direction immediately without talking to to others it's hurtful. I felt with Karissa she was like a leader but she didn't seem to embody it either. WHat leadership means to me is to give a roadmap and to show people where it's going to other parts. We want to support you, if you need things we can help with it. If you're sharing your vision we can prepare our code to support your efforts. A specific thing I can think of is the naming of Datdot, which is weird to explain to someone if they're saying datdot is a hypercore backup project. It doesn't mean we want you to do all the work, not what I see, but to communicate more clearly if you change directly.
- Paul: A lot of what you're talking about is to make sure communication is working the right way. I'm trying to figure out how to make it better. To explain where I'm at, speaking of vision I finished a blog post about the roadmap for summer 2020 where we outline what Beaker is going to be focusing on. On the DNS question a lot of that convo was happening in a github discussion which hasn't been highlighted a whole lot here. That seems like something that deserves more converation. Do we want to make part of these meetings to be a check in with what we're doing? For instance with DNS maybe we could have an agenda item to talk about the ramifications. I'm +1 if that's one of the things we should do in these meetings. Broadly, we're starting to message more. Is that going to be enough or is there anything missing in that?
- mauve: kind of like the old process. That was useful. is there some hypercore-protocole conversations that can be viewed/read online somewhere?
- Nina: Trying to understand what was happening and why we feel weird. Before Dat was centered around the hypercore-protocol and we were saying Mathias was a superstar building this, but he also had this community that was building around him and I wouldn't say it was just him. I feel that this identity crisis happened because everything was centered aroudn this, we were doing bits of promition, working on projects, working together. We co-created these super stars and it benefited all of us, and now they decided to leave. I learned about what happened in yugoslavia, when their dictator died they had no idea where to move because he was the symbol of the strategy. Probably there where mistakes made in the past where there was a community but the path wasn't decided, we were following the main character, there was an identity crisis. We are now left with Dat without hypercore. Yeah, it's a community of projects, but imagine somebody coming in a year and asking what is this and us not being able to say anything about this. We were unprepared, all these names are broken and nobody expected this. The question is what identity is left, and what identity does Dat even play for hypercore. I wonder in all this strategy, what is the space for Dat and what does it even mean. All together we need to figure out if we want to do anything with this.
- mauve: wonderful summary. Looks like there is a gap now since the core of project was pulled out.
- Martin: Two things. One, the identity thing is important, and I would like to highlgiht that because Dat and the Dat project and the Dat Foundation has been controlled by CS&S, that part of the rename of hyper was to move the IP from CS&S to the hyper organization, in other words to move the language control of what it is called from CS&S to Hyperdivision and Blue Link Labs, the orgs disconnected from CS&S without an official process. As an input here, just to voice this, this has been very destructive. Not because the links are broken or the protocol was broken or the update plan. We understand the update process is expensive. What has been hurtful has been the lost in trust in the leadership. There were docs about an upgrade process, that there will be a new version of Dat, and it wasn't done that way. The thing that hurts most is the loss of trust that this won't happen again. The loss of trust in a new version that Mafintosh won't say "Hey, the work isn't going anywhere and there's no funding, lets rename it again". The loss of trust is gone a bit, the name gave us trust in the whole thing. Would like to put this in a productive discussion. WOuld like to commit myself to support hyper, no matter what it's called. I think the tech is the right direction and it's the right way to go, I'd like to help with the communication process. My wish to the org is that we do this together and find better ways to collaborate.
- Paul: One of the things we can't overlook is that the dat foundation was completely disfunction by the end of 2019, no money. We were disfunctional internally, didn't know what belonged in core. I don't think we had a spirit of collaboration. I understand why everyone is upset, but it was not working how it was. Talking about the official process, other than talking to people I don't know what could have happened. At the end of the day the people that controlled the project ghosted. I'm sorry that it happened and went the way that it did. It's not that it was good and hyper happened, things were not good, and this is us trying to get it on a good page. And there's all I can listen to getting beat up on
- Andrew: There's a somber mood, but if you look at the state of the core modules, there's not that many people interested in working on the core modules. If you look at the state they've gotten vastly better, while the foundationw as in a disfunctional state. THere's a mismatch between
- mauve: i undestand that some of the org ghosted the project in the past but it was also hard to work with the core contributors. The communication was really hard. I think Joe was really completed burnt out. It wasnt only Mathias. Joe did a ton of work in the CLI and karissa too. There looks like it is a bridge like the tech flourighing and the community is broken. If the whole project is lead by the tech team, the tech team should have a specific process.
- Paul: decission process involves say no too. I worked really tight with mathias and manage to have a position in the stake.
- Mauve: respect your work. I dont think its only about PRs. It was kind of painful, eg when there were open processes to work on something it was quite easy but if didnt was that transparency it was more difficult/cumbersome to land a change/fix. It's not personal, respect your decissions. The org was struggling partially at least because of the relationship with the core modules. Code is great but the way the code is being made, it didnt get allong well with the community process. head down looking just the code doesnt help. I dont think you were acting with malicious intent. There were communications problems.
- Paul: i want to find a way through it. I wan to get pass with what went wrong in the past and get over it. Maybe not the same level of trust, but not to feel gloomy.
- Nina: Maybe something was wrong in the org, but they didn't know how to navigate things. WHat was wrong? I only see the board, and Karissa and Paul and Mathias. Was it that Karissa didn't know with her position?
- Paul: I wasn't on the board or the foundation. THere was the working group. I think the biggest problem with the foundation was that it ran out of money. We were able to fund Karissa and Mauve for the past year, but it ran out. Then there's no money in the Dat Foundation and CS&S wasn't interested in Dat. The reason the money dried out was cause of Max, it was hard to pull it together. There was a mozilla grant that fell through.
- Nina: Was the problem there was no money and no hypercore protocol is fresh and there's no money problem and it's like a fresh start?
- Paul: It's not an org, it's like two projects (three people) working on it. No idea what the budget is like for Hyperdivision, for Beaker we raised enough angel investments to keep us around, working on Mozilla incubator to take us forward. Ideally would like to have a separate org where once we do have money (Hyperdivision / Beaker) we could fund it. The way it works right now, it's all grants in CS&S. Personally grant writing isn't my angle, prefer to do traditional
- mauve: tallking about grant. Just talked with wendy from Internet Archive. She was interested in helping figuring out how to help people reach funding. Just want to mention that when funding was there and was good, to keep it there involves some work, social and such.
- Nina: Just want to say that I kind of understand the path you chose, I think I would do the same, I wish it was better communicated. But just wanted to say that there's a gap in this identity, if you have a wish to continue working with the community, now that the structure is removed, it'd be good to build a new identity. If dat is gonna die and we focus on hypercore, we have to know all these projects with old names and for all of us to know where we are on this. WOuld love to build on top and give back with development. Maybe we could work on what the vision is and help us get past this gap in the identity.
- Paul: I think what you were saying that the identiy / vision / groups is all part of the same things. We should figure out what the vision is for the community. Especially if it's more than a bunch of projects and to see what this community is trying to accomplish.
- Martin: The reason why NGOs exist in order for orgs to save lots of money. So if Beaker or hyperdivision finds a way to outsource goals that you have to an open source effort, for instance say "I have this vision" and part of it is "I want events funded by NGOs", it's a money saving effort. Things like that could be created through a shared effort. But it'd mean you'd need to share what kind of need could put it into an open effort, but also trust that that was done to your satisfaction.
- Paul: I appreciate the funding angle. I feel it'd be good to have a space that transcends whatever happens to the hypercore protocol orgs and could survive without it. One thing that this suggests is that for the next meeting we should talk more about what the vision should be. Make sure that we have a clear vision for y'all. Do check out the blog post, also the talk I gave recently which touches on vision stuff.
- Nina: maybe we can start with sharing what our own organizations/tech's visions are and then assemble a common vision
- Paul: Yeah, I agree we should start talking about this. Start with email with link to blog post and summary with what they're thinking about and what they're doing. Since we're so far on time we'll end here. I aprpeciate the honesty and feel better walking away. Want to get to a place where we're all feeling good about the community and each other. If there's more to talk about about we should. THank you very much.
- Andrewosh: Wanted to appologize for the hurt feelings people had. We're all human and that wasn't an intentional side effect from all this. I'm sorry for tthat.
- Martin: Thank you for listening to me.
- Franz: Looking forward to the next in-person conference
- Paul: Thank you all for today, ahve a great rest of your week, see you in two weeks

** Group Hugs all around **

## Notes

 - Paul volunteers to learn about the mailing list (as the backup person)
 - "Community mapping workshop" in the dat event got +1 consensus
 -
