# Dat Consortium Meeting 28


**2020-Nov-25 Wed**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20201125T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- Frando (Facilitor)
- serapath
- nina
- diego
- Mauve
-

## Agenda Items

- State of things with opencollective migration
- review manifesto
- timing of meetings
- ..?

## Notes

### Updates

- Diego: Been overloaded with work things. One of our updates from GEUT is that we recently released ["permanent-seeder"](https://github.com/geut/permanent-seeder/), made to be used with hyperdrives. Has a CLI and a Dashboard with a reference for what's going on. Put this together with people from [liberate science](https://www.libscie.org/) They are using this with hypergraph. These days we are putting a lot of time into our products, have a couple of ideas and more time. In the first months of next year we will be working on MVPs for these ideas. Maybe have something out in January. We are using the hyper stack and things from the ecosystem. Hopefully can start releasing things that can be used by others. Making modules for using with React and Hyper. Hopefully could be reused by the ecosystem.
- Mauve: Nothing much, heads down working on contracts. Started to work for Digital Democracy, working on Mapeo Web. A syncing server for Mapeo. Cannot really integrate with other seeding services in the ecosystem because Mapeo has a custom protocol around hypercore-protocol. With Martin/Consento working on permission system. Hopefully that can be used as a building block for multiwriter. Will start to work on that soon. In DatDot been working on on testing things, made a module called  [p2plex-gossip](https://github.com/RangerMauve/p2plex-gossip). Allows to quickly create a swarm of peers and securily exchange pieces of data between the peers. Crypto can be replaced. New agregore release with better fetch API, shortcuts for bookmarks (creates a desktop shortcut, like PWA for any webpage)
- Nina & Alex: Working on DatDot. Currently focused on debugging and fixing and figuring out connectivity issues, not as much implementing the content. Technically works but not yet stable. Still hoping to have some testable prototype towards the end of the year. Think it's possible, makes me happy. Thing I'm working on (Alex) in parallel: Once people try out the client, since they're storing hyperdrives, it'd be neat to have a proxy for the browser. So any stuff you use to host it can be used in the browser. Getting some shape and is progressing. Hopefully also get that by the end of the year.
- Franz: Getting back to work on Sonar. Looking into making the core reusable as a simple kappa setup with the current hyper stack. Looking into using dat-sdk, got an open PR for supporting hyperspace in the SDK. With that want to try out running sonary with hyperspace, should make it more reusable. Need another week and then it'll be ready to use and publish.

### State of things with OC migration

- Mauve: still waiting response from Danielle (CS&S) (Mauve will ping)
- Franz: Most of the questions that Allana answered are directed to CS&S.

### Manifesto

- [Link](https://hackmd.io/N2dFrSfxQbSP1nD94WC6RA)
- Alex: We need governence to deal with resources like twitter / hosting. Maybe in the future it'll be less necessary. Feels like something that should be aknowledged in the manifesto. There's a reason for why we need to do things this way. Maybe under "long term mission" or something? Added it in, could be nice to have the wording reviewed
- Franz: One thing that I noticed that isn't written down yet. We have comm comm and consortium tiers of membership. That would make the impression that this consortium meeting is for the people with positions of power, and the comm comms should continue as it is now. The invite-only list is for voting and last resort decisions. This group should not meet behind closed doors. As I understood things we would keep this meeting more open, non-consortium members could come to the meeting and have more people in the conversation than just on this list. Maybe that should be written in the manifesto. Rust calles this list the core working group. We should note that the meeting is more open than people with voting rights / responsibilities
- Alex: Regarding the list of people, we need a mechanism to decide to add members and that should be a monthly or yearly fee? One thing I thought of that isn't written down anywhere, there is a lot of people that have a project, even if they don't pay, if they have a project that depends on hypercore they already have stake. Maybe that should be one of the criteria? You have to have a project which is more long term and relies on some existing subset of the tech in the ecosystem. So that people from competitive projects don't join that propose stuff that might have conflict of interest.
- Mauve: I think that's really cool to have people actually use the tech be in the consortium. I don't see the point in having monthly or yearly monetary fees. Don't want to empower people with money or make it harder to participate. I think that works out though because people wouldn't add new members by consensus without them being invested in the ecosystem in some regard
- Franz: Also agree about fees. Wouldn't want to couple either voting or regular members to membership fees. Fundraising could cover that.
- Alex: Also against the fee, but it was brought up in the past. Having an active project could make it more reliable
- Franz: I don't think we need too many rule for that first circle. I think if we have a list of people starting and people are added through consensus. I could see somebody joining that has expertise that isn't directly in the tech. I don't think we have to decide that yet, as long as we have the consensus rule we could do that.
- Alex: I would love to have that members could text first. If someone works on the project for years and years, and something changes - now it's fine, but it could be otherwise. There was the change recently with the browsing and wasn't well communicated and it was hard to know what it means. How do we decide what is considered useful involvement? Could be good to avoid people with money buying themselves in.
- Alex: Summary: Learning takes a lot of time, it's hard to reskill. It'd be nice if the people that were invested had the ability to vote. People that came in recently might vote against the existing needs.
- Mauve: so you want to privilege people that have been around for a while?
- Alex: I feel there should be criteria where people have some sort of project or been making modules. They should have been around a while and should have stake.
- mauve: we need to actively trying to reach people from the mailing list ? to see if they want to participate here. Some work needs to be done in pull people back in.
- mauve: diego do you have manifesto comments
- diego: i'm ok with it, i'm more towards what frando is proposing - keeping things more open and lightly. votingmembers and readonly members. which people are here? i guess the people who are concerned with the ecosystem - it's hard to define that exactly, usually people who work with it in their projects. also the core developers are not so much around here. i feel like it makes sense to keep it open and work towards the goals mentioned in the manifesto. they are quite concrete, eg website and blog, documentation. we need funds to do that.
- Alex: I agree with Diego. Websites and those kinds of things, or conferences and events, need effort. Also since we have many projects in the ecosystem, maybe we could do co-founding. Agregore has a bit of a bounty. Question also is what is the content on the blog and twitter. Maybe that needs consensus and voting. If that's in the scope (not stuff in the hyper modules which is in mafintosh and hyperdivision), stuff around marketing is what people might want to vote on. Again would be nice to have a minimum criteria.
- mauve: I don't think someone can wind themselves in if we have consensus. and that's people who decide.
- Nina: Been cooking but listening. Absolutely love the idea of openness and transparency. We found that we're kinda like a body to manage resources, brand access to twitter and github. If this is completely open, then we need to be totally open.
- Franz: Feels like we're running in circles. I was under the impression we all agreed we had a consortium list of people that had decision power and that that list is fixed and expanded by consensus and the meetings would be open to others to attend. If that's the case I don't see why we're discussing being completely open. Was under the impression that this list would be open by consensus.
- Nina: Quick response, I misunderstood. Thought we were talking about the group being open. If we're talking about openness of calls then that's something else.
- Diego: Good summary franz.
- Franz: Any other comments for this discussion? If not leaving it at this.
- Framz: TODO: Scroll over these notes again and look if parts need to be added to the manifesto text. I could do that
- Nina:
    - 1. a proposal for a voting mechanism
    - 2. a list of membership acceptance criteria
        - e.g. maybe every member should have a hyper project/modules/agency/etc......something

### Timing

- Franz Paul was going to look into this, might want to wait for him to get back to us at the next meeting. Martin said we shouldn't move around just for him. Any other comments? Else we'll postpone until it was brought up.

### Next Facilitator: Diego



