# Dat Consortium Meeting 18

Wed 2020-07-08, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants

- Martin Heidegger (Facilitating)
- Diego
- Mauve
- Franz
- Kevin
- Paul

## Agenda

- Newsletter Action Item Update
- Dat Event Update
- Decide way forward with Dat consortium

## Notes

## Updates

- Martin: Doing fine in Japan
- Paul: Doing good
- Kevin: doing good in SF
- Franz: Good
- mauve: good, triying to figure it out what to do next. Will see next week.
- Diego: All good, nothing much to update

### Newsletter update

- Paul: Checked in. Situation is that CS&S offered to export the data, we can get the list and set up anywhere we want to. Do we want to go ahead with the export? Do we want to get control of the CS&S one? Depends on if we'll have a continued relationship with them. May be wise to export and set up regardless to move as quick as possible.
- mauve:  do we have to pay for the riseup list?
- franz: it's donation based. It's always nice to donate.
- Martin: Is it okay for newsletters?
- Frannz: It works, but there's no nice signup forms and stuff. Would need some setup work. More tailored towards mailing lists, can be configured so that a few can send emails, no nice embeddable forms like what commercial things allow.
- Paul: We'll want to set something up that's free.
- Franz: You can set up HTML forms
- Paul: Could set up a static website on GH pages or something. CORS constraints?
- Franz: likely, don't remember.
- Paul: CUrrently using Ghost. Somewhere between 5-10 bucks a month
- Mauve/Franz: Through mailchimp
- Paul: Ghost offers mailing list feature. Mailchimp's free account only allows 1 person, 3 at 15 bucks a month.
- Martin: There are alternatives to this. How should we continue?
- Paul: Should we move from the current mailing list software?
- Martin: Is it prudent to investigate other services?
- Paul: We should look, it'd be prudent just because we're unsure about CS&S
- Martin: Any questions about the mailing list? Should we move on?

### Dat Event Update

- Franz: Planning is going ahead. Martin took quite some time to set up a conference management thing for timeslots for sessions / communicate with speakers. It's open source software. Because we don't have access to infra outside of netlify, he set it up on Consento. Works nicely. Started pulling proposals into there. Working on integrating it with the events website. Martin did a PR, didn't get around to testing it yet. Gonna test in the next days so we can have sessions on the webiste. Decided to go with collective in Germany for big blue button. Paying 200 EU for BBB server for a week and some support hours for integration. 500/600 EU total. Billing status with CS&S is they agreed to transfer 2k from dat foundation to the event. Do not one to deal with more than one invoice. Have to do a single invoice to the foundation. Because there is no other org / community / legal entity, we decided that I would bill the foundation personally and then the others would get the fundning from me. Will provide full transparency for how these funds would be transferred. Not ideal but the event is so soon and we don't have another entity for that. Decided to route the momey through that because we can do that on a short timescale. We need to get started with publicity for the event. Diego wanted to draft a blog post. We would publish on Dat blog. Would hope others would help spread it from there. Use the mail addresses sooner rather than later for the event. That's the rough update, ask questions or Martin/Diego add things.
- Martin: Follow up: We had to test how the scheduling works, just prepared the submissions, will send tonight before bed to all the speakers with how it works and next steps. Website will go up live with a schedule within the next week. Need to update the website with more info and text which is on the task list for this week. Social networking needs to be done. We have around 18 presentaitons / workshops for these two days. Probablyy 9/10 a day in one room in BBB. We still keep last minute CFP open so people can join later. Talked about `https://gather.town`. Used for dwebcamp, wondering to use it as a space to meet, need to contact if we can do it. Or find a simmilar service. Also an option would be Mozilla Hubs. Would need help for that, consumes lots of resources.
- mauve: regarding gather.town, ournetworks is gonna be using too, diego is on a call with dwebcamps folks too, so they can be introduced there. There are other options with some more strict limits.
- Paul: Impression I got is there's a way to Gather go to zoom calls for one to many. Dunno if that works for what we're going to use, is it any kind of link or what? Was a bit confusing but not terrible.
- Martin: Thought to use it the other way. Gonna have twitch channel, gather town is for when you don't wanna join the chat. Next things to consider after schedule is published is to see how to get people to sign up for the event. Going to have a button to download a calendar to get notified about it. Wondering about what chat channels we should use and particularly around the Dat commuity there is no clear chat channel, there's gitter/irc/discord. It's all spread apart. I think also a mastodon instance somewhere? This might be a task. If someone could pic that up it would help general communication, at least at the time we can have one good place where we can have followup conversations.
- mauve: regarding comms and spreading the word in diff channels, do we need a new chat for this? or we can use other things?
- Martin: There will be a chat in BBB, for the main room. Not sure if we should ahve one for break rooms or if gather.town is enough. THinking about this for pre or post conversations to prepare for the conference.
- Paul: Promotion wise I'll use the twitter accounts I have to broadcast about it, two weeks ahead of time and one week and day before and day of. Also still have the dat twitter account with a pretty nice following.
- Martin: if you could give access to Diego that would be nice too.
- Paul: THank you for all the awesome work you're doing on this. You're all crushing it. One thing that stood up was it sounds like the newsletter could be time sensitive to the event. Maybe I should work to resolve that prior to the next meeting so you can send the blast on that.
- Martin: yeah, that's why we asked a few weeks ago. This would help if it's resovled sooner, if you can get it done as soon as possible. Wondering about paying, would it be okay for me to act on this? Could ask CS&S if we can use the current one.
- mauve: for the record, whatever makes sense, go ahead. We trust in you, paul.
- Paul: Will likely ping Mauve and Franz. Or someone that has stronger opinions. COming at it fresh without having done this before. Gonna reach out.

### How to move forward with Dat Consortium

- Kevin: There's an email thread that Karissa let us know there's a 50k grant for a rust impl of some of the hyper modules. Don't know anything about that beyond the email thread. If others know more that would be a good place to start background-wise. Can we find out more about that?
- Franz: I think it's two things that we're discussing. One os the concrete question of the `datrs` proposal, the other is the general future of the dat foundation / consortium. I think it makes sense to discuss them separately. Even if the funding puts up more reasons to move forward, cause we have a foundation no one can use. We have 50k from NLNet to continue the rust impl of Dat. Parts of the money will go to people that will work on it, Mathias, Franz, Karissa, maybe Bruno and a few others. For people based in EU, the money can go dorectly to them cause there's no taxes in between. For Karissa and others no in the EU the money needs to go through some entity. NLNet can only do donations to legal entities or persons living in the EU. THe funding was initially submitted more than 9 months ago. The inital proposal was changed in between, int he original proposal it just reads dat foundation everywhere. For this funding there might be ways to do that without the dat foundation, it's just part of the 50k, could be routed through some EU company which could work, would just lose some money to taxes. I think that situation is something that can be repeated. Someone applies for funding, it could be shared, they need some entity to route money through. I think that's somehting important that a  dat foundation could do which leads into the email about how to move forward with the dat foundation. My understanding is it doesn't make sense to stay with CS&S, the last conversations didn't seem very inviting, seemed formal and not straightforward to work with them, of course that's part of the non existing governence, got the impressino they didn't want to invest time to find a model where we would stay with them. I would propose we create an advisory board for a new dat foundation that we would select out of this group in some way and then transfer the foundation from CS&S to opencollective with the standaard fiscal host. They take 10%  but that's about it, then ahve the dat foundation as a low profile too available when it's needed that's some board or advisory comitte make decisions and only exist for when decisions need to be made or resolve conflicts. I think the current sitation with the datrs should bring us towards solving the situation where we have a foundation that we can't use.
- Paul: I wanna echo what Franz said that his read is correct, my understanding is CS&S is unlikely to continue the relationship with the dat foundation, we could try but it might be better if we found a new arrangement. Open collective seems like a servicable solution for now. Danielle emailed the mailing list on June 1st with a set of requirements for moving off of CS&S so if we're movng forward here's what we'll require for moving away to transfer the existing funds to the new organization.
- Martin: THe thing that is most tricky from this is the open source asset stewardship. THat might be the trickiest part since the OpenCollective isn't a legal entity by itself. You don't create a legal entity just from opening an opencollecive account, you need a 501c3 to be the fiscal host. I have not opened a 501c3, don't know how much work that is. Aside from this, opening an open collective account and moving to it I think is a bit unrealistic. My thinking is we should stay with CS&S, at least for the time being, when the org has settled. But until we prepare a proper org strucutre then we could move to another org. No matter if we're in a new org or the current one, we should have governing structures for who should bein the meeting. WHat are the duties and responsibilities. Not just for the steweredship but also the fiscal sponsorship. What are we doing regarding wanting to steer the tech.
- Paul: Question of the governence is somewhat orthogonal, I agree we should do it. Regarding the legal strucutre, I agree it'd be hard to set up a 501c3 is challenging, you need people acting as advisors, could be hard to arrange. Regarding trademark around the name and copyright for anything, as I understand it, I don't think there has been any actual trademark registered for Dat, the defensibility is open for question. Not only is that diffcult because there's nothing registered but until you defence it in court you don't know. Second observation with the copyright, I beileve it's an option to move all the code and docs and move them into the public domain. Did a cursory review of anything in the repositories, majority of it that's copyright by the dat foundation is relatively legacy. Only one that struck me as difficult was the CLI which still registerd Max Ogden as copyright owner. If there's individuals that hold the copyright rather than the foundation... The amount of copyright actually head by the dat foundation is low. That's my understanding, not a lawyer.
- Kevin: Matches my understanding for all those points too. I have set up a 501c3, it's not impossible but takes thousands of dollars of layer time, staying with CS&S my understanding is we'd only be able o transfer to another 501c3, if those funds are valauable we could need to do that. When we were discussing about CS&S one problem was their requirement for 25k in contributions which we didn't think we could accomplish. Does the rust grant work for that?
- Franz: Just to answer the last question. The idea so far that only part of the 50k would go to the dat foundation, for people that are not based in the EU because we would lose 15 percent with CS&S or 10% with open collective, whereas if we transfered to people in the EU the full money arrives at the contributers. If we want to use these funds to stay with CS&S that could be possible, need to talk to Karissa bout that. I'm not convinced about what it would buy us to stay with CS&S because I think most things could be settled with open collective. I would rather have a very clear arrangmenet with them so we can do things ourselves, don't want to be in contact with them to see what we can do because that turned out to be time consuming.
- Paul: It strikes me we may need to consult with a lawyer. Maybe that's something we should be debating
- Diego: It's a bit difficult, but I think that based on what you mentioned, I'm thinking "what do we get by being part of a 501c3" because otherwise open collective seems to be an option. We have this blocker with CS&S, what if we just leave them and maybe talk with a lawyer about the trademarks and IP. I guess trademark is the only difficult topic because the rest could be public domain. If we just leave we could be losing the money we have now if the grant money doesn't go to CS&S. Else we could move to open collective
- mauve: OC is a 501c3?
- martin: nope
- mauve: all of the dat related assets are kind of forgotten. There is only a few people talking to each other about this, hyper stuff is owned by mathias as I understand. Not attached personally to dat. Being able to get funds is more important than trademark. If we move all the IPs to Public Domain that is a good plan.
- martin: public domain can be several things. One can be CC license. Where the data is public but cannot be used for commercial use. It's an option. Part of that is that if it's public domain anybody can use it, and the
- _more discussion in the chat_
> From Paul Frazee to Everyone: (2:51 PM)
FWIW I think it should be possible to convince CS&S to pay for the lawyer from the dat foundation funds
From Franz Heinzmann to Everyone: (2:51 PM)
its' called the "open source collective"it's like the "default" 501c3 host for opencolletive projectrs
From Franz Heinzmann to Everyone: (2:53 PM)
danielle i think in some conversation mentioned that moving towards that would be cool with them
From Paul Frazee to Everyone: (2:53 PM)
^ Franz she voiced the same to me
From Franz Heinzmann to Everyone: (2:53 PM)
then from all funds its 10% fees, 5% towards opencollective the platform and 5% towards open source collective the 501c3
From Paul Frazee to Everyone: (2:53 PM)
I believe Creative Commons still maintains copyright holdingthatâ€™s fine for things moving forward but not for any copyright we need to discharge from the dat foundation
From Franz Heinzmann to Everyone: (2:54 PM)
right
- mauve: if dat doesn't exist, it's only hyper protocol. We don't get any say on hyper for holding dat. So I don't really see how dat the tm relates to any future stuff.
- Paul: Question around whatever we do moving forward, one question I have is how we intend to brand the org. If it's no longer dat, it's deciding between hypercore related or something else, if it's hypercore related it needs to be coordinated with the hypercore org, if it's another org it's another org. No matter what it's called we need to know it's relation to the hypercore org.
- Karissa: I think that there's a larger discussion which is important to ahve about the dat consoritum, there's the practicallities, the dat CLI which could be updated, there is money for that and the documentation around the hypercore-protocol, the stuff Duncan and Yosh worked on. I think there's practicalities around stuff to deal with. If CS&S isn't an option OpenCollective is a 501c3 and can take the 30k as well as transfer the CLI and the Docs and website and all that IP stuff. Just as a practicality that we can accomplish in a short amount of time. Getting that 30k unlocked is a proprity IMO.
- Paul: Not sure when you came, we were discussing the merits of staying VS starting a new 501c3, we could investigate staying with CS&S, but sounds unlikely, talking about making our own which would be expensive, talked about open collective but that migh mean losing the copyright. Leads us to now talking about what work would be created and how that would relate.
- Karissa: Danielle said it was okay
- Paul: was it the money? my understanding was they could take money but not IP.
- Karissa: I thought they could do both. (unminuted)
- Franz: I was wondering if we could make a proposal to move forward and see what people's thoughts are. If we create a new dat foundation at opencollective as a fiscal sponsor, we could transfer money to it, then for the IP we could take another round of consultation and maybe a lawyer> Got some thoughts, not sure if the people in here are the right crowd to make decisions. We could summarize that and make a decission . New dat foundation with open collecive sounds like it could work as a structure for groups that aren't very intensive for open source projects. Could also look into EU legal entities like associations, if it's easier to host the IP somewhere in EU. We could decide with another two weeks of comments by other consortium people that are not here today and move forward so we can have some working structure and access to funds so we can have access to resources to the group here.
- Martin: Would suggest to extend convo for 15 mins.
- Paul: I gotta leave.
- Martin: How much time?
- Paul: I have to go right now. I'm okay with y'all contiung without me. THank you everybody have a good day.
- Martin: I wrote this in the mail as well, I think it doesn't matter which org structure we continue with, we need to prepare some gov structures and docs on how we want to organize ourselves in the future. My proposal that I brought up last time was to start working on this. Kevin metnioned he could do some admin work if it could be paid, karissa said there's some funds for admin work so we can find some structure. Does anybody disagree with this or does somebody want to start forming government works and rules, would that be okay? Would it be okay to start working on this, who would be taking on the job, what do you think?
- Karissa: I think it'd be worth spending money. Could be a lot of calls with CS&S to work out how to transfer properly. Looking at all the assets and stuff. I think we have the open collective and can spend some, we don't ahve a lot but maybe 500 bucks for someone's time on this
- mauve: interested on working on this. Can feel confident navigating this water, it would be nice to have someone else for sanity check also.
- kevin: can help on that way. I think mauve is the right person.
- Karissa: I can add you both as admins.
- franz: cool, agree. Also up to taking part of being part, forming this new entity. An initial board or something that could help. Like a first task.
- Martin: just to confirm, Kevin Franz and Mauve are part of a workign group getting our working group set up
- Karissa: Can add me and CC, trying not to spend 50 hours on the computer but could help read emails and stuff but not go to any meetings
- Martin: Can I get an aye
- (aye)
- Martin: Would want to request shared docs where others can follow. Just my personal request.
- Franz: One thing, maybe in the email afer this, maybe we can open that inital group to the others on the list.
- Martin: Also if you know people you can PM them directly.
- Kevin: Worried OpenCollective can't. Does their 501c3 support having a non profit get the money.
- Karissa: I think it'd be a monetary transfer from CS&S to open collective, as far as IP goes it's something to talk about with CS&S. We can probably get away with making it public domain. Danielle made it pretty clear that OpenCollective is an option.
- Karissa: I'm sorry to see CS&S go, but that does seem like the consensus of the group
- Franz: I think it would be cool to get over these intial hurdles in an not too work intensive way to have a better starting group to see what we can do with that org and see what can be shared between projects and potential ways to save on work to get grants into the community. Looking forward to that and find a way without people having too much to work on.
- Mauve: It's nice to see and end in sight.
- Diego: I think it's good that we have this working group initialtive, feeling a bit clueless as to how to help with 501c3 and organization which are more US things. I think things are progressing.
- Karissa: Thanks to everybody for coming together and trying to figure stuff out. I think there's a lot of last minute stuff but we're on the road to getting the funds unlocked and having a working group structure to move things forward.
- Martin: Thank you for everyone in participating. Quick reminder that next time will be the last time we meet until the conference. I hope we see a lot of progress from the governing group. I wish you all a great time and will see you in two weeks. Thank you!

## Action Items

- Paul figues out mailing list
- Franz will ping cblgh for facilitating or be the fallback
- Mauve will ping danielle to start talking about IP
- Kevin/Franz/Mauve will start on the working group

