# Dat Consortium Meeting 37

**2021-04-28**

## Participants
- Nina Breznik (Facilitator)
- Paul
- Kevin
- Diego
- frando
- mauve

## Agenda Items

- Transition from Dat foundation to Dat Ecosystem on Open Collective
- What projects can get listed on Dat-ecosystem Discord, Webpage? Criteria? Pros/Cons (we already had a short discussion on Discord https://discord.com/channels/765986527574360065/765998967389028445/832353350728024084)
- DNS repo location

## Notes

- Personal Update
    - Diego: Still working on radio online? project. Hosting another even this Sat. Will help us continue with metrics and see performance. Expecting more poeple ~100 online. Will be interesting.
    - Nina: What is it?
    - Diego: An audio platform where you can create your own show, taking concepts from online radio, aiming to make things easy. Have good audio quality. There is no limit on listeners. Plan to share as soon as possible. Doing small events first to feel confident that we can share it with others.
    - Paul: Working on CTZN. Did a UI refresh, feeling good about it. Working on server-side stuff, fixing perf. Solidifying the  protocol design. Beta next month? Taking time, making progress
    - Franz: Working on sonar past two weeks. Trying to get an alpha release ready quite soon. Currently more of a side project, want to finish up what we've been doing. Hope to have something sharable in the next weeks
    - Kevin: Trying to get a new code signing cert from GoDaddy. Refactoring desktop client. It has file manager and wallet controls (seed / eth stuff). Would be better if we just used Metamask. Significant refactoring with new functionality. Maybe change it from multi-window electron to as single page UI that runs in the browser. Still an electron app with a taskbar icon, serves the UI on a webpage on localhost so you can connect metamask to that page, so we don't need to code wallet controls ourselves, more secure for the user. Figuring out stuff with the token. Lots of people itnerested into DeFi toolset.Setting up a page so you can use the ara token for liquidity mining, can earn transaction fees? Will be able to stake ara for additional ara, something with stablecoins.
    - Nina: We are taking the same route with electron (datdot), maybe we can talk about this, kind of same concept. Do you think it makes sense for us to invest in Ara? 50 bucks to 5k in a few months? :P
    - Mauve: a lot of consento stuff is on hold. Running out of funding. Plan to talk with Danielle about other projects. Still waiting for natakanu fundinf proposal response. Also working on [] plan to ditch pouchdb and create a new indexing module for hyperbee with similar api to mongodb. Aplying to grant (ipfs related) to work on standardize how browsers react to custom protocols. Recenglty got a pinephone (linux phone), plan to test agregore on it to see how it behaves P2P + phones/mobile. Also reverse eng vr headset.
    - Alex: working on db-related, and some UI work. Integrating things. Lots of moving parts. Re-implemented lots of logic using state machines. Building our own wraper around xstate. Thought to integrate with other libraries. It would be nice to restore from logs too.
    - Nina: did some work refactoring some code. Got more control over the whole stack. Figuring out if seeders are working ok. Plan to make more robust those checks. Also some work with wizard amigos. Trying to rebuild community online. Try to do this bi-weekly.

- Transition from Dat foundation to Dat Ecosystem on Open Collective
    - mauve: no updates. latest one from danielle. Payment will land soonish. Waiting for CS&S to give the ok to transfer to OC.
    - nina: somebody open an account?
    - mauve: we are reusing an account. we can rename after.
    - frando: we are still waiting for the email. Danielle saying (2nd apr), joe hand will follow up. THere is one other thing. I don't think any of us has admin access. REmind CS&S they should move the main admin access to one of our accounts.
    - mauve: will check, I think I have.
    - frando: there is a main one that we should check.
    - mauve: I'll double check
    - nina: what about websites/gh repo? things that we can not use anymore
    - mauve: netlify and domains maybe
    - nina: should we make a list of things that need to be transfered?
    - mauve: probably a good idea
    - alex: if they could forward to our gh page it will be great
    - nina: would you like to share what has been done?
    - alex: still wip. From the beggining of dat made all the pages work (historical work) on the dat ecosystem site. I think all the links on the pages work. It mostly usable. We can forward to those pages and use that to redirect. pages exists as gh-pages.
    - alex: added the history (page) and maybe we can reconstruct with links. Also link to important projects in history.
    - nina: feedback/comments?
    - mauve: sgtm
    - mauve: **I do have admin access to OC.**

- What projects can get listed on Dat-ecosystem Discord, Webpage? Criteria?
    - nina: got asked about some projects listed on discord. is it enough that the projects are built using hyper-* or should be add more requirements? Also there is the consortium access. Please share your thoutghs
    - mauve: personally I think if they have Open Source Software (OSS) stuff, thats enough to me. regarding consortium it will be better to know people better. But having a channel on discord should be good enough to start
    - nina: OSS requirements?
    - mauve: usable OSS modules.
    - frando: mostly agree with mauve. we can also channels around if needed. with regards to the consortium, right now not important to be super open. Will wait to invite. Figure out things with the migration, settle things a bit. Its good to know people first, then we can talk about adding people. Then policies can come also.
    - paul: agree with has been said. Its good to have lists of modules and things.
    - diego: Agree with others. Listing projects is good for the convo. We can wait a bit to invite to the consortium. Meeting people and learning more about them before inviting them would be good too.
    - kevin: agree. It would be nice to use comm-comm or video chats could be a good previous path before consortium invite.
    - nina: agree with having different sections (discord org). there are different levels of open source. what dat brand stands for? it has values? or is pure technical? for consortium, maybe time could be valid criteria, spent 2/3 years in the ecosystem.
    - alex: our project is fully OSS. Maybe not all. maybe not fully OSS projects can be on a different category. For consortium, people should be on the ecosystem for some time (2/3 years). Should prove some long term commitment. All the current projects kind of help to the whole ecosystem (eg: contribute to core projects?). We can have some criteria for future added projects.

- whom can be listed on discord?
    - kevin: all/easy
    - paul: all/low criteria / indicate OSS
    - diego: all/low criteria / indicate OSS
    - frando: same
    - mauve: same
    - nina: same
    - alex: same
- whom can be listed on webpage?
    - kevin: all/easy
    - paul:low criteria/ indicate OSS
    - diego: all/low criteria / indicate OSS
    - frando: same
    - mauve: same
    - nina: same
    - alex: same
- whom can be part of the consortium?
    - kevin: invite to one particular meeting to know more
    - paul: vote
    - diego: vote
    - frando: waiting a bit, show more commitment, propose, it should take a little while to build trust
    - mauve: same frando
    - nina: a little bit more cautios. maybe with more time
    - alex: same nina, define some criteria clearly beforehand.

- mauve: it would be good to ping them first.
- nina: share what are you doing, your project.
- alex: curious about the tech side of the things. How they are using hyper-*

- hyper-dns
    - mauve: lets continue the talk async

## Action Items
- mauve to add open collective access to all consortium members
- linking dat domains to cloned github pages i the dat-ecosystem repos
- following up on remaining resources with Joe (after this first round of migration is done)

## Next facilitator
- alex :trophy:




