# Dat Consortium Meeting 41


**2021-06-23**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210623T10&p1=224&ah=1)

### Participants

- nina (facilitatorina)
- Martin (notes)Thank you, Martin <3
- Serapath (alex)
- Mauve

## Agenda Items

- Martin
    - updates about resources (modules etc.)
    - domains for the blog
- [dat-ecosystem joining rules](https://hackmd.io/5zL2Qt4_Sv6-_YgY8rJspg?view) - proposal by @serapath
- dat-ecosystem communication efforts draft - https://hackmd.io/SUqtds4pRcOlRG-Zxqbd7A


## Updates

Mauve: Working on hypergodot - integration hypercore into godot game engine. Hoping for virtual worlds thing. Working on Hyperbeedeebee - testing it in an APP atm. Working on Protocol Labs dev grant to test IPFS protocol in browsers. Once IPFS version is done Mauve plans to also provide this for hyper.

Martin: DNSLink project with IPFS is consuming my activity but its progressing nicely. Also looked into Decentralized Identities in depth and find it a messy but interesting specification. Also doing pair coding/review sessions trying to make sense of hypercore bitfields and sending PR'

Serapath: Currently refactoring: renaming/moving/reducing things to clean up the codebase and streamline everything. Finding hot path of the code.

Nina: Trying to identify hosters in the swarm. Now with dht v5 we can finally check the publicKey and I try things out. We are moving in July, let's see what comes out of that.

## Notes

## Agenda items review

### Moving

Martin: So, I sent out mails to Joe Hand again as reminder and contacted Yoshua Wuyts myself, asked Diego to contact Julian Gruber and Nina to contact Max about moving the npm packages. So far Julian and Joe are missing. I am demotivated by trying to catch CS&S, as shorter turn-arounds would really help and am not sure what I should be doing about it.

Nina: Maybe we can contact mafintosh for some help?

Martin: Possibly a good idea, but ping is not always easy.

Nina: Mauve, do you have some contact that could help?

Mauve: No, sorry, no contact to people, but last contact to people was a while back.

Alex: We could ask Max, Karissa, Mafintosh for advice.

Martin: Which order would be good?

Nina: Mafintosh, Karissa, Max.

### Joining Rules

Alex: There is a main issue that I received and the main issue focussing on people/project distinction. I tried to structure it as a tier system based for projects. Trying to set a bit of structure to give a process for the projects, giving requirements and the projects commited and make sure that the projects are commited. But it doesn't make too much sense. They should use hypercore. Trying to find a channel for people, we are a bit confuse on what to put there. And the organization is a bit focussed by projects instead of people. My question would be to give this to some new people. Would they be in the consortium, should they be? Should members of project have it easier to join? I don't know the answer to it. Maybe phrasing it differently, some small things.

Nina: Any comments?

Mauve: I worry that we don't have a very large sample of people in this meeting. Probably the things we come up with need to be had with a grain of salt. I think we should focus on projects rather than people seems reasonable. If people don't have a project the question is why they join.

Martin: I strongly recommend to separate consortium members from projects. There will be several edge cases that makes it hard to tie them together and so a seperate plan may be useful. I would also try to reduce the complexity of the system. The more details it has, the harder it becomes to understand and maybe you can work to focus on brevity?

Alex: I took it from the perspective of the word "Consortium", in an industrial context. It may be a side-project and modules may already be a project. Not everyone has a company. Why are there so many tiers: Lets look at ara or tradle with investors. Their success makes them a lot different in characteristics. I would hope that successful members are supporting the ecosystem, while an individual can't.

Nina: One thing about this project v people, I am thinking about Martin, and if you leave this project, as a person would think only projects, but we have to somehow frame this, but if someone is already part of this should stay part. Regarding the tiers.

Martin: Lets refine the "joining rules" proposal and we continue discussion next time or async.

### Communication

Nina: The draft that I prepared was about goals for communication and I was trying to prepare the communication strategy proposal.

Mauve: I am fine either way.

Nina: What could the ecosystem be? What would we like to see in future? Engaging people to build on top of this. To grow the ecosystem, when Martin last time mention the cleanup on projects, to decide which projects are important? How do we communicate those projects. We could maybe position ourselves as "Garden" to "grow things". We have people in the chat that are eager but don't know how to start. We could select certain projects that we think is needed. We could call this "project canditates" - we, could mentor them - from this real/active projects could form and they could apply for microfunds (from what we have on Open Collective and CS&S). Maybe these funds could be split between project/mentor. Bigger projects could be used to used shared communication channels & collective funding campaign, for projects. I don't know how to continue from here. Then we can start with concrete actions. We can also start communicating in this direction.
(Draft proposal here https://hackmd.io/SUqtds4pRcOlRG-Zxqbd7A)

Mauve: I don't think it makes sense to mention CS&S at all, and communication around it is hard. OCF would be interested in helping us to find more funding. Maybe we can bring it up at next meeting as well.

Nina: Agreed.

Martin: I like the metaphor: garden having a good core message is super important and it can be used for many things. Just continue with it and looking forward for more details. I doubt that someone will be working against it.

## Action Items

- Martin: Updates on Move
- Alex: Updates on Project Tiers
- Nina: Updates on Communication Plan

## Next Facilitator:

- Mauve :trophy:
