# Dat Consortium Meeting 36

**2021-Apr-14 Wed**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210414T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- Paul Frazee (Facilitator)
- Martin
- Diego
- Nina
- Kevin
- Frando
-

## Agenda Items

- Review from last time
    - Mauve send Serapath deetz on OSF -> https://www.opencollective.foundation/#whatDoWeDo
    - Mauve introduce Martin to protocol labs folks
    - Martin: markdown file with orgs doc in some org repo.
    - Review Open Collective stuff
- Martin: Let's talk about well-known files for a bit.

## Notes

- Personal Updates
    - franz: working on sonar some and some non-dat things. Been spending time on a audio search engine for archival.
    - martin: been working hyper-dns a lot. Wanna talk about it later. Had conversations with other organizations (like 3) if they want to use hypercore, what is it, how it can help, etc.
    - diego: been working on a our demo, an audio platform for conversations and possibly programs
    - nina: continuing work on dat-dot. Been using peer-to-plex to connect processes, it fell out of date, now rewiring to use hyperbeam. Preparing the code to move to state machines. Also doing daily video updates.
    - kevin: updating the ara stack to the newest version of hyperdrive. Influx of defi-interested users, working on how to build for them.
    - paul: wrapping up ctzn. bug fixing and a custom html template system. A pure html system that allows user to publish html and control their profiles. Customization layer using webcomponents.
- Review agenda items
    - documenting things for the transition
        - martin: gonna revisit this in two weeks
        - franz: did some work in the past with transition documents. Link: https://hackmd.io/@T6Wf5EsOQKe-6wyPjJPtuw/Hycn0F63r/%2FDKIek9RWRPWv0sCf0S16Zw

- Review OC stuff
    - martin: I remember something was set it up.
    - Paul: involves OC setup new account and money transfer
    - fran: last email from march, follow up from alana.
    - martin: who is going to write that email (follow up with joe?)
    - Summary:
        - we have the ok from danielle
        - need to continue the conversation with OC people (alana)
        - martin is willing to continue the conversation

- hyperdns: well-known files
    - martin: summary. Everything started with a decentralized group, they have some problems with the distribution and that there was not hypercore dns available. All of these makes some things difficult to share content (like a magazine/content website). After spending some time revamping the dns/hyper situation found that well known files might be a problem.
        - figuring out if a site does support dat/hyper its fast. dns lookup is fast.
        - figuring out if a site does not support dat/hyper its not so fast.
        - server using well-known files can be easy to setup
    - nina: can uou reprhase the problem/possible solution
    - martin: the process of resolving domain and protocol should be pretty fast. current system uses dns. well known file adds some indirection to where the actual content is.
    - martin: ipfs has their own dns system. Difficult to add support for dat there. Would like to talk with protocol labs people to look for a workaround for this.
    - paul: one of the good parts of well known is wildcard support. with services like hashbase was pretty important. avoid multiple interactions with dns system. dynamic routing with wildcards. if you cant support that it might be a problem.
    - martin: trying to find middle ground. If there is entry that says use well known, go for it. But there might be a 2nd level check ?
    - paul: there is a difference btw knowing if site supports hypers and the dns problem.
    - paul: in terms of perf there is a dns lookup and then the well known.
    - martin: there will be also a spec update
    - paul: only strong requirement is supporting the wildcard.
    - franz: no strong opinions.
    - martin: I invite you to checkout the hyper-dns docs: https://github.com/martinheidegger/hyper-dns/
    - martin: gonna try to submit a couple of PRs to aggregore and beaker in the next weeks


## Action items

- Martin: markdown file with orgs doc in some org repo.
- Martin: continue the conversation with OC people (alana), cc danielle.
- Wrapping up the hyper dns

## Next Facilitator

- Nina :tada: