# Dat Consortium Meeting 46


**2021-09-15**

10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210915T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- kevin
- alex
- mauve
- paul
- diego

## Agenda Items

- Grant Team Update & Next Steps

## Notes

- updates
    - kevin: working with nfts. thinking about dat upgrade/replace strategy
    - mauve: been working on hyper projects into geto (?). chat example app. debuggin agregore stuff too. also working with hyperbeedeebee integration with mongo. figuring out a new grant for agregore.
    - paul: atek cloud work. working into users auth, fixes, etc.
    - alex: recovering from car accident. taking some time off.
    - diego: still working on audio platform, called SHER.
    - martin: working at tradle. chief of engineering. Reading lots of code. There is a big decentralized component there. tradle has lots of prospect customers with big user bases.

## grant update
- danielle reply
    - first, short summary of the situation:
        - in the past few weeks we were working with nina, alex and myself into what is the final draft for the CS&S grant. There we defined some tasks with descriptions, budget and expected duration among other details. You can give it a look here: https://hackmd.io/@dpaez/B1t0kGkAO
    - CS&S (Danielle) replied today and said this:
    > Thanks for your patience Diego. I think we are ready to go on this. Page and Kris, can we prepare a grant agreement with this material as an attachment? Then, Diego and co you can review that and we can move forward with a payment to your org at OpenCollective.

    - So in the next couple of days we will review the final agreement from CS&S and we can review it. We will share this doc with the rest of the consortium so you can be aware and help review.
    - After reviewing they funds will be transfered to OC.
    - At that moment we should start looking for aplicants to the different tasks. We can promote the tasks in the community (discords), twitter and event closer communities (SSB?, etc).


## mauve ask for advice for a grant (web monetization api? - true ledger?)
- mauve: grant requires bringing some crypto into this. Worried about the auth/KYC scheme.
    - paul: been thorugh something similar. stack is not easy to work with. KYC requirements.
- mauve: would be make sense for marginalized people? is it going to help them?
    - paul: worth mention things are experimental.
    - kevin: agree. Hope we do more experimentation and share more about that. The outcome is important, sharing it.
- mauve: also have a short deadline (in 5 days)
- alex: can you do your own monetization system?
- mauve: no. they all use the same thing on behind (interledger)
- kevin: One thing I can say about KYC. we can do manage to avoid it on ara by using some smart contracts. ara delegate to some other services where people can swap (coins) between. Delegating to other services (Defis) and coinbase might be a solution to avoid KYC built-in in your platform.


## Next Facilitator:
- mauve! :trophy: