# Dat Consortium Meeting 34



**2021-03-17**
10am San Francisco;
1pm New York;
6pm London;
7pm Berlin
[timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210317T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- [Martin Heidegger](https://github.com/martinheidegger) (Facilitator)
- mauve
- diego
- paul
- kevin

## Agenda Items

- Name: Dat Ecosystem
- Manifesto

    The discussion last time got a bit heated, mostly because there were questions open about the Manifesto that simply didn't fit in the hour. After the meeting Martin sat together with @serapath and we came to the point that the current manifest would be good enough for him to be okay for the time being.

    Martin opened the pull-request for the final first version of the manifest on dat-ecosystem/organization#1. To avoid that the discussion time during the next meeting goes overboard again, it would mean a lot to Martin if you could review the pull request!

    To finalize the manifest, it would be a good idea for every consortium member approve the pull request. This way we can make sure everyone is okay with it.

    _The manifest sets as a goal that we document and act in public, which posed a problem for the CoC as we need a private means of people to contact us. Setting up an email address seemed to be too difficult which is why Martin set up https://dat-ecosystem.org/organization as a means to contact us. ([source code](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/tree/gh-pages))_

- Communication with C&C (Open Collective, etc.)
- Dat Ecosystem

## Notes

- Personal Update
    - diego: still working on audio project with. alpha test on April.
    - mauve: aggregore workshop at mozfest. low tooling setup, just hacking, wandering around code. Good experience. hyperbee as pouchdb plugin (for a project). On the consento side, the groups thing is progressing pretty good. Doing a demo these days. Some fixes but there is some progress there. Also talking with some earthstar folks. Got a new mic! :microphone:
    - paul: ctzn work! doing some headdowns around protocol-things. remove ambiguity from some places. ctzn protocol. handy utility for having some rpc mechanism over hyperbees (db methods like). working on item system, points system. Plan to jump on fixing up some UI bugs later, would like to help others to start coding their own plugins to drive development forward.
        - mauve: what are you using for indexing?
        - paul: every thing is writing in their own db. there is some sync between diffeerent dbs (which can be different devices/users). The order is more important (agains some clock based mechanism)
        - paul: also checkout https://ctzn.network/dev-vlog
    - kevin: learning about nfts. looking to doing nfts on ethereum for streaming video creators. doing lots of research. Trying to write some smart contracts for doing this.
    - martin: finishing up personal project. Looking for a new job. Thinking about dat ecosystem. Built a messaging app for dat ecosystem. I'd like to have more discussions (life, philosophy) with the people here.
        - mauve: can only make it for 1 hour and would like to keep the Personal Update section. Gives me more a feeling of community than other things. Motivates me to be here.
        - paul: aggree with mauve. Also when we finish those agenda items we will have more free time.

- dat ecosystem :heavy_check_mark:
- manifesto status
    - need [PR](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/pull/1) approval now
    - we have a new private messaging app.
        - martin: gonna share the pk on signal
        - martin: demo
        - martin: waiting for mafintosh to join to the dat-ecosystem group
        - paul: maf is on vacations now. Maybe we can merge this now and add maf later
- OC Update
    - mauve: If I recall correctly, Alana said its good to go. There were some questions, Franz help to clarify things regarding the group. All good to go. Right now we are waiting on CS&S.
- Thinking about the future :thinking_face:
    - martin: personally looking for new job and considering different options. Looking for things I should be doing. Open for suggestions.
    - mauve: Internet Archive, someone asked for a dat/hyper ambassador in the community. With diego we were working on updating the hyperdrive-publisher. Almost there. Needs a bit of testing. Ben and others they are looking to build a tool to easy sharing zines into different p2p networks.
    - mauve: I'll CC you in the chat martin.


## Action Items
- OC Migration / CS&S
    - mauve: gonna ping again CS&S these days.
        - mauve: after migration finish we will need to add more people to the OC group.

## Next Facilitator

- mauve :tada:
