# Dat Consortium Meeting 40


**2021-06-09**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210609T10&p1=224&ah=1)

### Participants

- martin (facilitator)
- kevin
- diego
- nina
- alex

## Agenda Items

- everyone: send oc handle to martin to be added to the admin team there.
- martin: send email letting know some people will be removed (OC admin team will be updated).
    - alex: what about the mailing list? needs to be updated?
    - martin: nina did the list?
    - alex: will ask later
- martin: send email to joe about remaining resources. Can add diego, alex to the list.
- revamp blog status. martin mentioned something about encouraging others to write some posts. we can explore more about this idea.

## Notes

### Updates
- Diego, been working on the new "sher" audio platform with geut. We are making progress and also some progress on the economics and are looking for good ways to monetize this. Maybe in the next couple of weeks he may approach some things about how to collaborate, nothing yet.
- kevin: same as last couple of weeks. making some progress on dlog. doing some research on federated arq for ara (aka, tortoise, tortuga). Electron shell. current goal: server install target. It will be open source. how to? fork and rename.
- alex: been working on some sort of desktop system browser based. also working on some components (window management, theming). Exploring other webcomponents standars for improving theming experience.
- nina: pushing the chain and service logic. hyper-logic, chain-logic, simulation. Then joshua will implement in rust. How can others can help? its hard to ask for help at the moment, big codebase. Otherwise, when this is ready it will be nice to have some feedback. See more here: https://github.com/playproject-io/datdot-service
- martin: working with utp-native. Updating it to stream-x. deep dive! First native module. Trying to figure it out how to do the debugging :bug: Hard to collab on things that are not made for collab. Made for speed. Didn't manage to merge pr yet. Some missing tests at the moment. Several edge cases, some of them are normal. The other things is I got the ipfs grant, its all open. Post updates to some discussion link. Been working actively on it. Improved the test suite so test suite match spec. Also related, published :new: module: [doh-query](https://github.com/martinheidegger/doh-query) :star2:

## Agenda items review

### OC handle
martin: Its done. All of you have been invited

### email update (about removing some people)
martin: not done yet.

### email update (resources, next steps)
martin: done! added some people to the cc. There are some packages that are in progress to be moved to the new org. There are 9 packages that need to be checked:

    - dat-desktop (juliangruber)
    - rabin (juliangruber, karissa)
    - dat-encoding (juliangruber)

    - dat-http (maxogden)
    - getdat (maxogden)
    - datscript (maxogden, groundwater)

    - dat-elements (kriesse, yoshuawuyts)
    - multidrive (juliangruber, maxogden, yoshuawuyts)
    - gasket (maxogden, mafintosh, jbenet, melaniecebula)

These packages belongs to people outside the ecosystem. Need to reach them individually. Check if they need to be archived, transfered, or we need to look for new maintainers.
nina: how do we deal with these?
martin: all consortium members are npm owners now. If we do this, we need to invite people to the npm team for doing the transfer.
martin: why these efforts? As a group we have the OC, people backing it. They may have expectactions. There are a bunch of packages that can be considered legacy, do we need to take care of these? I think there are 3 options:
1. archive it (need npm control too, not just gh)
2. hand over to someone to take care of, need npm access too.
3. maintain it, again need npm access

- nina: so we centralize then decide. track progress, and things like that.

### blog status
- martin: remains almost the same. Still need some dns/domain access. After all is done we can publish normally. Will like to create a PR with how to approach new post from external contributors.

### feedback / questions?
- nina: thanks! feel free to ask for help if needed
- martin: thinking how to share all the news about the consortium and such. Public relations is hard, takes time. If you feel with energy, you can contribute here.
- nina: I have some ideas. What can we do for the next weeks/time. Maybe gather other projects that were engaged in the past with dat project and let them knows about the news. Like a direct communication channel. Maybe we can invite orgs to the dat ecosystem. Need to gather this info first.
- martin: for example you can go through OC contributors. Main thinking from my side, this requires some coordination and organization. Setup a list of people to ping to, a blog post, some calendar invites, etc. Need someone to **take the leads** on this.
- nina: its compat with our goals. It can be benefitial for both. Maybe share our projects with them.
- martin: think about this as a organizational effort. Separate time for this. Would be nice to hear other thougts.
- kevin: are we still targeting these groups (original groups)? Karissa made some progress on this aspect in the past. Simple tools that work well. In the past dat was just a cli and desktop app, unfortunately this projects are abandoned now. Maybe we can create a team to update these projects. Those are the questions that I have?
- alex: agree with all of you. Regarding approach, we have some channels that we can use (tw, blog). We also have the history section on the site. Not sure if a team is needed. What kevin mentions looks like a task for a team. Like an oportunity to create this teams/projects. Is there still some need for this? Regarding describing these roles, share a link with joining rules [here](https://hackmd.io/5zL2Qt4_Sv6-_YgY8rJspg?edit).
- martin: why dat desktop is broken? it wasnt well implemented, in order to do it well, you need to re-implement something like beaker. As far as scientific communities, our resources are limited. Trying to create new products/projects we need to be sure about sustainability. We can use OC campaigns as a way to launch a project campaign and help pushing things. There may be some CS&S money that we can use if there are new projects in the ecosystem.
- alex: it would be cool, could be an incubator too (dat-ecosystem). It can be a way to create self-sustainable projects. At least to kickstart them.
- nina: we need to figure out some things first. Hyperdivision is the tech stack, but there is room for projects in the ecosystem. Also I would offer myself to create a communication draft. So we can then openly discuss this.

## Action Items
- nina: communication effort draft. Try to see how can we discuss identity and position. Can we use some things that we already have/done.
- martin: set up new domains for the blog. Try to reach joshua and julian.
- Diego: would like to help martin reach julian if needed. Also nina, if you need help with the comm draft you can reach me.
- kevin: will be the next moderator, hope to have tortuga federation system ready!
- alex: looking for feedback for dat ecosystem joining rules (https://hackmd.io/5zL2Qt4_Sv6-_YgY8rJspg?view).

## Next Facilitator:
Nina :trophy:
