# Dat Consortium Meeting 49

**2021-Oct-27 Wed**
📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 2021-Oct-27 Wed
> 10am San Francisco
 1pm New York
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 3pm Buenos Aires
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20211027T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- Nina (Facilitator)
- Paul
- Diego
- Kevin

## Agenda Items

- updates by the teams (by Nina)
- collaboration with Mafintosh (by Nina)
    - archiving
    - new protocol docs

## Notes

- Personal Updates
    - Kevin: halloween themed nfts. NFT Storage situation. pinata ipfs research. Would like to know more about how it is their DX. _The talk turned into pinning services._
    - Paul: working on some updates and fixes for ATEK. Spent some time with the latest updates from v10, more specifically with the truncate API. autobase workshop. ATEK update: spork! Wrote a blog post about it (decissions and what is about).  
    - Diego: still working with SHER (sher.geutstudio.com), pushing the product side of it. Learning more about different  product metrics. Trying to create a deck for sharing with possible investors.  

- talk with mafintosh
    - nina went ahead and talk with mafintosh about the current grant received from CS&S and the possiblity of using some of that money to support a new updated version of "how dat works". 
    - mathias said they were working on docs updates (lost of work with the latest v10 alpha release)
    - paul: we should wait a bit until everything is more settled (re v10 release).
    - nina: maybe we can help by guiding people through the different code modules. These are maintained and documented by hyperdivision. 
    - paul: community guides is a good step. Its the kind of thing that we can do and add value from the dat ecosystem. 
    - 
    
- Paul extra Updates
    - Gonna try private beta from thelios project. Looks promising. 
    - nina: they want to join to the dat ecosystem
    - paul: new feature release from hyperdivision. Looks like a better proxy mechanism. hyperbee related?

## Next facilitator

Kevin! :trophy: (next: paul)
