# Dat Consortium Meeting 39


**2021-05-26**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210526T10&p1=224&ah=1)

### Participants
- diego (facilitator)
- kevin
- martin
- paul
- alex

## Agenda Items

- Open Collective Foundation Update https://discord.com/channels/765986527574360065/765998967389028445/842184930284666882
- Mauve to add open collective access to all consortium members
- linking dat domains to cloned github pages in the dat-ecosystem repos
- following up on remaining resources with Joe (after this first round of migration is done)
- Alex to create a proposal for rules to include projects in website, discord, etc.
    * see:

## Notes
- personal updates
    - martin: work with ipfs for dns stuff. small fund for the job. working on that for the next month or so. utp native work (?). ghost to eleventy (blog migration).
    - kevin: liquidity mining research for ara token. doing some research around defi sotfware. getting defi setup for ara. willing to come back and work on ara specific things
    - paul: where to go next with ctzn. protocool re-arq. hypercore for a twitter-like app.
    - alex: trouble with merkel verification. solved it. nina record the session. UI concept work, starting implement, first components.
    - diego: project is progressing. Been working on infra related tasks.

## Agenda Items

### Open Collective Foundation Update

- martin: we finally moved to OCF! I can add team members now. **Need OC handle from the rest of the team.** Available Budget: ~4k (almost 5k).
- alex: accounting questions.
- martin: fiscal host does the accounting. if there is a new expense comming in, they need to send the invoice and OCF will submit as soon someone in the team approves it.
- martin: we havent talked about the control around it. Joe Hand and Danielle are admins, they should be removed? Going to send an email letting them know about this.

### linking dat domains to cloned github pages in the dat-ecosystem repos

- martin: will do later. Created a [GH project](https://github.com/orgs/dat-ecosystem/projects/1) with some tasks to be done.
    - needs help / feedback
- alex: question about legacy gh orgs.
- martin: project update.
- alex: can we moved and entire org on github?
- martin: yes we can do something similar.


### following up on remaining resources with Joe (after this first round of migration is done)
- martin: want to do that. send email to joe.
- alex: also interested in being part of the email.
-

### Alex to create a proposal for rules to include projects in website, discord, etc.

- alex: still working on that. Will post something on discord.

### Can we use Github Projects for managing actions/efforts?

- alex: maybe we can use github projects.

### Notes

- martin: we have a blog. We should tell the public about this moving to OCF. next steps?
- alex: are there some conditions to use the budget?
    - pay something for the transition/management of old reppos for example.
    - people can apply to do some task ?
    - maybe we will need to do have some framework defined first.
- kevin: we can start thinking about meetup / event.
- paul: at the moment heads down trying to define some things.
- martin:
    - about the framework. yes for events! we can even add additional sponsors.
    - it would be really good to have some blog entrys about all the latest from ctzn
    - for blog posts we can have a standard settlement. issues in our blog, mentioning that we are looking for articles. like a fixed price.
    - paul: yes, cross-posting is another option for the future too.
    - martin: maybe if you want to involve someone from the ctzn community and how they feel about it.
    - martin: one blog post I would really like to see is what about peermaps or what is mauve up to?
    - alex: any project can write/share some update anytime using the blog.
    - martin: we can agree on some topics for paid blog posts. like something specific. will add these to the discord.
    - paul: will work on blog post this week. will let them know on discord.

## Action Items

- everyone: send oc handle to martin to be added to the admin team there.
- martin: send email letting know some people will be removed (OC admin team will be updated).
    - alex: what about the mailing list? needs to be updated?
    - martin: nina did the list?
    - alex: will ask later
- martin: send email to joe about remaining resources. Can add diego, alex to the list.
- revamp blog status. martin mentioned something about encouraging others to write some posts. we can explore more about this idea.

## Next Facilitator: martin!
