# Dat Consortium Meeting 59

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-May-04 Wed**
> 6am San Francisco
 7am Denver 
 9am New York
 10am Buenos Aires
 2pm London
 3pm Berlin
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220504T22&p1=671&ah=1)

## Participants

- Martin
- Nina
- Diego
- Serapath

## Agenda Items

- CS&S grant updates
- [Twitter handle change proposal](https://discordapp.com/channels/765986527574360065/956264396873691187/968807755186049075)
- **ADD YOUR TOPIC**

## NOTES

- Updates
    - Martin: last week finish my work at tradle, I was there implementing plugins loader to serverless functions. Still have some projects with tradle. Holding out. Yesterday check some old work, bringing it back to life. protocol-buffers realted. Looking what to do next, decentralized paper wallet project. Other than that, still looking what to do next, looking to restart some live events, planning a talk about modules imports systems. 
    - Nina: :wave: helping alex solving adm questions. Kind of familiar with all of it. Looking to hire non-western devs. Dealing with alternative payment methods. Dealing with bureacraucy around it. Also working on some UX tasks, implementing vanilla JS components, working on theming, you can rewrite all their styles when you import them. Made a style app to test all this. Looking to standarize components creation. 
    - Alex: Busy running with application candidates (applycants). Figuring out legal side of it. OC helps here. Exciting and boring at the same time, administrative tasks. Need to deal with acccounting too. :briefcase: Been working on some browser bridge, to make hypercores available in the browser. Thinking about the best way to build hypercore based-apps. Thinking also how to separate and sandbox different apps.  
    - Diego: :package: :exclamation: Our new product Sher is our focus right now. We're spreading the word and trying to apply to the accelerators to get more visibility and get connected to the investors. So far we are having a few shows a week and trying to grow organically. We recently launched the Discord and are trying to connect with creators manually/directly. Currently there is not many open technical problems, we more need time and resources to continue.We're planning to release some open source modules soonish.

- CS&S Grant Updates: 
    - alex: been in conversation with Joe aobut the handshake grant. Share mutual information. Telling Joe that we plan to use a multisig wallet to handle this. Preparing the ground to procede. THere is a handshake discord server where we can get more info about the HNS project.
    - martin: timeline?
    - alex: don't know. We didnt set any specific dates yet. We are in the process to set the multisig. They are in the process of claiming.
    - alex: jwerle wanted to create a multisig wallet for us. They are quite busy now, so they can take some time. They also wanted to create a smart contract related to this. Looking for a solidity dev with experience on DAOs and communities who could help us. Otherwise we can wait on jwerle but that could take some time. Other option is to use gnosis wallet, that could work much faster but it will lack our manifesto (as a smart contract)
- Grant Transition Update
    - Nina: working with some new folks that might help inn the next few weeks with the new ecosystem website. It is in progress. There are a few tasks open. If this
    - Diego: there is one task ongoing but looks stalled (no responses). This is the survey task. Need to ping them again otherwise look for someone else.
    - Diego: mauve will be busy next weeks so they would be unable to work on the technical article
    - Nina: maybe we can reuse mauve's work. Otherwise we can reuse mafintosh articles. 
    - alex: I would prefer to do the former, a tech comparison
    - Martin: might spend some time on it next week. 
- Twitter handle change proposal
    - Martin: lets better create a proposal: change x to y
    - Nina: I already did it. change `dat_protocol` to `dat_ecosystem` :star2: 
    - Nina: gonna share the emails used.
    - Martin: if you create a new account, tell discord about it. So everyone is aware.
    - Martin: there are some solutions like keepass, 1password, bitwarden that one can use to store passwords.

## Action plan

- serapath continues with Handshake
- diego will check if he could take over technical article task from mauve
- martin will check which of the open tasks he could work on
- nina & alex will manage the website and ecosystem visualization task
- diego will reach out to flame (working on surey task) with a deadline and if they don't provide results, we find new person for the task

## Next Meeeting

- Diego :trophy: 
