# Dat Consortium Meeting 63

ðŸ“punch://jc38t9nr7fasay4nqfxwfaawywfd3y14krnsitj67ymoubiezqdy/ymfwqg59ihu9b7c1fbw147gpubta7g4kj8ximkdy1tu3689b15qbzjtjd6aw7upzamppyo9ak9an6cabmymtxnpmfyoemgiof7pajn4oyry96d3fec6eryeyybyy1x751d693gwiqb6wz8zoxh6a5rzr9ggdu46wzcame4ofhqjxggye5cs47mezindj15trfbwxkgdypxqfdq1ngqidori8zrtt8cfbyr or https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem

ðŸ—“ **2022-July-27 Wed**
>6pm London

## Participants

- Nina (Facilitator)

## Agenda Items

 - grant updates (site, vizualization, identity)
 - what's new in the p2p world
 - individual updates

## NOTES

Updates:


## CS&S grant


## Action plan



## Next Meeeting

:question: :trophy:
