# Dat Consortium Meeting 58

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-Apr-20 Wed**
> 10am San Francisco
 11am Denver 
 1pm New York
 3pm Buenos Aires
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/)

## Participants

- Nina
- Alex
- Kevin
- Martin

## Agenda Items

- updates,
- maybe some demo, technical questions
- CS&S grant updates
- further discussion on how we'll manage funds together (multisig)
- **ADD YOUR TOPIC**

## NOTES

### 0. who would take notes today

### 1. Checking in

Kevin: All NFTs in our project. Online tutorials, Gitbook for NFT marketplace. 2 services for uploading NFTs: Pinata & NFT.storage (ipfs), nothing available for Hyper yet.
Martin: Finishing contract with Tradle. Haven't been working with Hyper stuff in these past months, but back again.
Serapath: Analyzing streamX and hyper-dht because we're still working on the browser bridge. A standard to bring hyper into the browser.
Nina: Building out UI components in vanilla.js to be used to build out the datdot app & to be used in other future apps (built on top of datdot)


### 2. PREVIOUS ACTION ITEMS


- [x]  discussing previous proposal & updating it


#### PROPOSAL

https://hackmd.io/NT7RReeERU-lQsPOqZ3mXg

### 3. DISCUSSION & NEW ACTION ITEMS

#### ACTION ITEMS

- [ ] next meeting: voting on this proposal & moving on from there
- [ ] sharing open todos from CS&S grant with Martin 
    
### Next facilitation:
Martin 

### Next call time
4. May 2022
> 6am San Francisco
 7am Denver 
 9am New York
 10am Buenos Aires
 2pm London
 3pm Berlin
