# Dat Consortium Meeting 55

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-Feb-9 Wed**
> 10am San Francisco
 11am Denver 
 1pm New York
 3pm Buenos Aires
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/)

## Participants
- kevin
- nina
- serapath
- diego

## Agenda Items
- [ ] 0. who would take notes today
- [ ] 1. checking in
- [ ] 2. previous action items
- [ ] 3. handshake grant

## NOTES

### 0. who would take notes today

- diego :pencil: 

### 1. Checking in

- Kevin: ara/rad still with the eye on nft. Internal conversation about what to do next with P2P. Ideas: try to do more on a browser's tab (like webtorrent), inspect what desktop apps can do (electron-land). Try to attack the problem from both angles.
- nina: working on the UI of datdot. Work with a new designer, reviewing wireframes and then starting implementing some new components. 
- serapath: One thing that is missing still is the browser. Work on browser-side. Refining prototype. Also take a look at how IPFS does it. Checking repo: "IPFS on browser", lots of opinions. Decide how datdot can work on the browser. Ideal: look for a standard way.
- diego: [SHER beta](https://sher.app) is out. It was successful. Next will be looking for new creators and focusing on the product side.

### 2. previous action items
- ?

### 3. handshake grant
- Updates from the grant:
    - serapath: talked with Joe about claiming crypto bounty for datproject. 
    - serapath: a multisig wallet would be nice to explore and practice first. 
    - serapath: once we are ready we can ping Joe. It would be nice to also ping others from the consortium.
    - nina: Joe said he can transfer to OC and cash-in easier.
    - diego: OC send an email today saying that they can receive crypto but they exchange it automatically to dollars. 
    - nina: maybe we can ask Joe about his experience and help us transfer the crypto out to a different wallet. 
    - kevin: we can try using a multi-sig browser based wallet to hold the crypto grant. 
    - kevin: personally, im very familiar with ethereum toolset.
    - kevin: is anyone willing to do a deep dive exploring some toolset and then we can schedule a 45min meeting, for example, next week and this person can tell us their experience. 
    - serapath: I can. I'd like to avoid huge transaction fees. That's my main concern.
    - nina: do you know something about current state of DAOs. Maybe we can create our own DAO. DAO's already include the multi-sig?
    - kevin: I have some experience. The one I used is called defender. You can create proposals, and token holders can vote based on the quantity of tokens they have. The outcome of the proposal is on-chain. So anything that a smart-function can do. It's also a bit scary, complex and automatic. 
    - kevin: anyway we should practice, whatever the system we choose.
    - kevin: we should be comfortable with the choosen tool. That's my opinion.
    - serapath: It just comes to my head that we received a grant from the polka people. We can ask if they have some system, maybe they can walktrough us. 
    - serapath: there is an option to open a company in wyoming so we can keep an accountant and everything legal. This should be done in conjunction with the DAO. 
    - kevin: that will cost some money. You will need to additionaly hire some lawyers and accountants. That would cost more money. OC they are doing that for us right now. 
    - nina: what are the legal aspects for a group like us to have their own DAO and such. We can also learn from polkadot because they have really low transaction fees. So the question is, can we as non formal org can we hold/receive money (as a DAO)? If that is legally OK, we can then explore the toolset.
    - kevin: we should imagine/picture the number of transactions needed beforehand. 
    - serapath: there is another platform called Kusama (?). It's on-chain. They have a motivation to spend the money on projects otherwise the money is "burned". 
    - diego: think about time spent thinking and discussing about the money VS time spent thinking on the ecoystem and its needs
    - serapath: its a big grant. It is cool to explore the decentralized options. Maybe we should have a vote on that.
    - kevin: its a pretty big decision to say that we are moving to a DAO style org. We need the input for the whole comunity (ecosyste commitee).
    - nina: its important to save money. it can be worth for someone. Later on we can explore our governance and how can we more transparent. Something I'd like to see.
    - kevin: is there anything else to say or address or sync-on from last time? anything with the grant task for example
    - serapath: for now, maybe we can add some **action item** summarizing the options and ping everyone on the consortium. 
    - serapath: some options below
        - option 1: to check if open collective even takes a cut if we put the money there
        - option 2: if OC takes the cut, then maybe to research what would be best multisig to store funds in crypto 
        - option 3: later, we as a community could explore how to use new tech to support our collective efforts (voting, governance, dealing with money...) 
    - kevin: just a few minutes left, anything last?
    - nina: :new: doc to gather some knowledge about crypto multi-sig and such: https://hackmd.io/M1i1NiNLSR6upzGRf5Subg
    - nina: some update with the grant. First part is mostly there!


## Action Items

- ping OC about crypto fees (looks like there are standard fees applied)
- work on new doc summarizing multi-sig wallet and DAO experience https://hackmd.io/M1i1NiNLSR6upzGRf5Subg

## Next Facilitator 

- Kevin :trophy: 
