# Dat Consortium Meeting 53

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-Jan-12 Thu**
> 10am San Francisco
 1pm New York
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 3pm Buenos Aires
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/)

## Participants
- Nina (Facilitator)
- Paul Frazee
- serapath
- Kevin Faaborg

## Agenda Items
- checking in
- **previous action items**
    * [x] domain renewal
    * [x] cabal-discord bridge server (currently glitch: 96 usd/year)
- **grant tasks needs to be reviewed**
    - [transition & archiving](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/projects/1)
        - open question: what do we do with dat-dns and dat-sdk => transition to maintainers?
        - show updated page on dat.foundation/datproject.org
    - [community hub/website](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/projects/3)
- tasks that need to be worked on: 
    - [communication and engagement](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/projects/2)
        - let's review them again (specially technical writing, survey etc.)
- **org questions**
    - who has access to Open Collective 
    - who needs to vote on stuff
- always on
    - discussing business models
    - news/trends sharing (what's new or what did you learn in the past 2 weeks)


## Checking in

- Paul: Vitra project: semi working state, non blockchain PoC for smart contracts; Bluesky contract for working together (project lead by Jay Graber) 
- Kevin: Been on holiday, just getting back into work. Ara is still working around NFTs and working with the NFT token.
- Alex: Working on browser app tooling which integrates into networks like DatDot. 
- Nina: Been working on Dat Ecosystem grant tasks. Transitioned all the repos into the archive org and added deprecation notices. Same for websites. Mostly done, remaining tasks are in the agenda. Applying for a Polkadot Treasury grant.

## Notes

- Nina completed domain renewal.
- Nina was charged for a glitch subscription which runs the cabal discord bridge. $96/year. We should check into whether the glitch server is still needed and then decide whether to continue running it.
- Transition team shared their progress with archival. Much of it complete.
- Transition team proposed scraping dependents/dependencies to produce a list of projects & modules on the ecosystem site.
- Nina shared mockups for the ecosystem site.
- Discussed finishing the transitions and new site, then getting into communications.

### Action items:
[see next meeting](https://hackmd.io/FdJ8TQ0LSHmzL1qzOPMDuw#Agenda-Items)

## Next Facilitator: 
Serapath :ghost: 
