# Dat Consortium Meeting 2

Wed 2019-??-??, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_

## Introductions

mauve: Hello, thank you all for coming out to the Consortium Meeting. Last time we were talking about what we'd like to see for collaboration, and what pain points we had around collaboration in the community. We had an agenda from points we didn't get to before, but we'll have something else before we get to that.

mauve: Lets do a round of introductions, catching us up

tony: I haven't done anything new. Mostly been thinking about how to help people integrate. Trying to get better context with teams that use kappa-core

paul: Working on Beaker. Worked on indexer for unwalled browser, recently figured out how to move all that out of the browser and into userland. Built in indexes didn't feel fun, super excited about this now.

sam: Nothing new to report

kevin: Working at Ara, using Dat for p2p distribution layer for creators/podcasters. Opens sourced the client. https://github.com/AraBlocks/ara-file-manager

joe: Got a dog, teaching her about Dat but she doesn't understand it yet.

franz: Working on kappa-core rewrite.

diego: Working on an SDK. https://github.com/p2pcommons/sdk-js

noffle: Haven't done anything new since last meeting

karissa: Applying for grants for Digital Democracy

cblgh: Working on thesis: Trust based authentication, general purpose. Cabal had a community call, talked about lots of stuff: scaling hypercore, introducing sparseness to kappa architecture

karissa: Substack couldn't attend meetings because it's too early. He was integral in that conversation

mauve: Thank you, today we have two new people joining us.

serapath: Here with Joshua (Jam) and Nina. Project called the Play Project. Also organizing a code camp. It'd be nice if there was a page where all the projects had a way to introduce themselves. We're working on two projects:
- SmartContracts.code: P2P Search engine for source code for smart contracts (in Solidity) for the ethereum ecosystem. Working, but using hypertrie and having a lot of open questions around indexing. Maybe we can work together and reuse stuff.
- Got grant fudning, starting in december. Something like hashbase - a service to host dats or hypercores. Anybody can run the server and share disk space, the network will measure ration of download and upload, people with better ratios have priority for seeding data.

andrew: I live in Copanhaggan and work with Mathias on hyperdrive. This week doing fuzz tests on hypertrie and getting it all to work with symlinks. Trying to stay warm which is hard right now.

## Relationship of consortium to core hypercore protocol group

mauve: We were thinking of talking today about what this consortium is in relation to the core work. What should our focus for the group. What is the interface between the two. Last time we just spoke up when we wanted to talk, this time we'll use the raise hand feature and prioritize first come or whoever spoke least.

mauve: Last time we spoke about some of the tension and pain points of how thye development of Dat has been going, and how collaboration has worked historically, and the feelings about all that. It'd be nice to think about what we want to do as a group: are we trying to influence the core protocol work, are we trying to build stuff on top, what would we like to see from all this.

tony: One thing that I would like is to try to find a way for us to collaborate. Trying to get less into tech stuff, some of us may share a lot of similar infrasturcture underrneath, some are different. I've shifted focus to find some more of the people that use kappa core and wanted to see if we can find some patterns that we can extract and use together. From my point of view I'd like to get in touch with anyone that uses kappa-core to see if there's something we can do together.

sam: I think what this group can do is try to identify tcommon use cases or requirements between projects and try to come up with common and interoperable solutions. It'd be a good overarching goal. Identifying performance issues and how to address that And that can benefit every project that has that issue. Or to standardize interoperability. How do we define what Dat 2 is in a standard way? So that anyone that wants to be compatible with Dat 2 or Dat 1 can do that according to the specification.

muve: That leads into "How does this relate to the technical roadmap of Dat", andrew had some questions around "Is there going to be a technical roadmap for the consortium", and how does that relate to the roadmap that you're following. What are you ideas around what you'd like to see or what potential things could happen.

andrew: A little bit of my confusion stems fromt there being a lot of directin the group can take. Something I'm hearing is sharing code and sharing ideas at the high level. The other side of the membership with voting and governence. These are two separate areas and the latter would be important to define what the organiztion's resposibliites are and how that influecnes things that are lower level in the stack. I'd like to explore those possiblities and hear what you have to say about that.

mauve: Thank you. It's super useful to get your voice in this because you've been working on all of these new features in the core, and it's been invaluable to have all these changes, but it's also been interesting to see how people have adjusted to that. There's a lot of low hanging fruit to make that process more smooth.

andrew: Definate there is a process that we can put in place as part of core development to make it more clear what improvements are in the pipeline. It's been a pain point to be more open about that.

serapath: The suggestions sound good to me, but I'm thinking about how to reach out to projects to talk about issues. Where would I do that? My experience with our project working with Etherium ecosystem, what they do currently evolved over time from maybe a year ago. The etherium foundation was having community calls similar to this consortium call. Because there were more people only like five or ten out of a hundred could talk over the duration of half an hour, and the rest were just listening. What changed was that we started using telegram. Whenever there's a conversation around an issue, somevody takes the initiaitive and creates a new channel and invite / link people and people self-select to joint the channels to talk about those issues. What I heard from Andrew regarding those projects, maybe those projects could collaborate on topics or issues using these channels, and maybe we could have a list so we could browse and self-select to join them. Maybe then things could go faster. Doesn't have to be telegram but that's something that's working.

mauve: Yeah, Karissa mentioned something about collecting resources from the consortium and putting them on Github. Would you like to talk about that?

karissa: I like serapath's idea. We're already kinda doing that informally on IRC. Projects do their own.

serapath: Is there a list of channels?

karissa: There's not. Something like a way to have documentation around stuff and talking about similar work that people are doing - IRC is good for somethings, but I think my interest in this voice meeting is to bring people closer in a small group - not every single project - people that are contributing to the codebases - that's been my idea around this. I think that having a hypercore protocol working group is separate and is almost an offshoot.

sam: We have a few of these places for discussions, but there's many of them and they're spread around and hard to discover. I first discovered the project a couple of years ago and it took a while to find all these places with discussions and the past few weeks I've been reading old posts in DEPs repo, but there's also Dat planning on Dat's repo itself. It'd be useful to consolidate and describe which conversations should go in which place.

mauve: So, maybe on Github or something?

cblgh: On the general point of where would you like to see collaboration happening, speaking for cabal, hypercore and kappa-core are two good points of collaboration. Separately from t hat it'd be nice to have a grants program from the participants here that could fund research for improving these core primitives and privacy primitives / layers on existing modules. Not sure how that would be sourced or spread out or how decisions would be made. SSB has prototyped this and it has worked to varying degrees. Makes collaboration more concrete.

mauve: Just to bring it back to the question of the core technical roadmap and the consortium, would you think that people in the consortium want to affect the core road map, or would be be building on top of it and leavint to andrew/mathias/paul. The lower level modules like hypercore-protocl/hypercore. Would you like to see the people in the consortium affecting decisions there, or are you focused mostly on building stuff on top of it?

noffle: I think both? I dig into Hypercore for debugging issues. I think more openness in the development progress would be useful. When hypercore brought breaking changes it affected the community a lot since everyone had to update their code. Having awareness to know that breaking changes are coming or even having discussion on breaking changes would be really useful. Also, I'd really like to see shared ownership of hypercore and the core dependencies. If there was some processes around it and "who owns these core primitives that power all these projects".

paul: We agree that we need transparency, communication from core hasn't been good enough. On that front we're pretty sure we need somebody whose full time job is to help make sure communication is occuring between core and everybody else to make sure there is clarity on that.

joe: When we started talking about breaking changes in multiwriter about a year ago, that was one of the reasons that we formed the protocol working group. it was my understanding that the goal of that was that any breaking changes changes were discussed and documented ahead of time. That's been my furstration in that we can have a process for doing that but if there's no accountability to sticking to that. If we do have a group of community memebers doing that, how do we make sure they can be held to account. This has been broken since changes were being made without following the process. My understanding was that was the whole point of the working group. How do make this process soemthing that has buy in from both the community and people working on the core, so that it's not something that's overly burdonsome for everybody to actually participate in.

mauve: Thank you, it's really good to hear your insight from being with the project for a while and having to juggle the community facing goals and community goals and doing both.

franz: I also think that soemthing like a protocol working group or hypercore working group would be good. Maybe have a forum that's more concerned with core modules and a technical roadmap that is soemethign that can be discussd. The relation between the core group and this process with more people we have is leading to. The relationship between those two doesn't have to be super clear from the beginning. As I understood the idea of this meeting process was that the current Dat as a project is coming from a time when the project was smaller and ran by a few people, now that range has expanded and the original dat project ran out of grants that they ran by. I see this forum as a way to craft something like an umbrella would assistt in organization and share information where several parties care about soemhting, and would organize how these things are handled. This is separate from how the core is handled. Maybe two forums with different guidelines on how contribution and membership is handled. As long as forums have clear resposibilites and guidelines that everyone agrees on how things are handled.

mauve: That sounds like it'll be super handy when we have it handled

tony: Most of my thoughts were mentioned previously. I thnk this is mostly a question about resources. What most of us are doing are experimental technology and as frustrating that it can be, the work that has been done in hypercore has had extremely amazing patches. I understand it can be hard to community and talk about breaking changes. The people that work on those projects should understand their upstream dependencies. We haven't really established a general framework or piece that sits on top of everything so it's hard to understand what is a breaking change. Without taxing the actual development, having a forum where we can be notified about changes would be just amazing.

serapath: Regarding such a forum, I imagine that the Dat foundation/consortium has a strong voice. It'd be a best practice to figure out how to go about it and make an official statement to people rally around this. From my perspective always being busy with coding, if I could have an official post that there would be one IRC channel so that whenever there was a repository or module, the go to palce would be a channel where we can discuss things. At least we'd have a way to find people to talk about it. A simple thing could be IRC or Gitter. I'm a little afraid of big forums since it seems like overkill.

mauve: That's definately something we should look into more.

karissa: This groups is really exciting because a lot of the docs and developer experience work has been done by just a couple of people and now there's tonnes of peopel doing it. I didnt' want this group to replace or affect the existing working group. This form can be a place wher epeople in other working grups can report progress or discuss things. That was my general idea - that this forum this voice call is more about the umbrella of the organization, there's a non profit so we can accept donations and stuf. The core development is still a working group and should be a separate working group.

mauve: What I'm hearing hree is not so much that we want to do one thing at once, it's that we all have things that we're working on, and it'd be nice if we can have communication on things where we intersect and to figure out how to keep each other productive and share resources when we can. Andrew, how does this all feel to you coming from the protocol development or does this help contextify what we're trying to do.

andrew: Yeah. It helps a lot. I think before there was some confusion on my part, and mathias who unfortunately could not be here today, I think there was confusion around how the conversations in this working group would be expected to affect the core modules. I think I'm hearing that better communication and collaboration processes is what everyone wants from this group and this clarifies a lot of my confusion about this group and about that.

mauve: Anything else before the next topic?

cblgh: A small note, if we have another meeting, it'd be good to have an adgenda point for ideas on how we can imrove communication. Whether each group has a blog. It'd be good to think about for the next meeting.

mauve: Regarding the agenda, Karissa and I just made it up so any items we think of today would be really handy

serapath: Rather than having a blog or anything, something simpler like a chatroom that's standardized would be preferable. On behalf of th other people on my team, how does the roadmap and this planning currently work? I hear it should be improved but I'm not aware how it works.

karissa: We can follow up on that after because there's a lot of people in here. We can also have an agenda item for next time. This is a valuable discussion to have.

## Do we think the foundation is a good container for this work?

mauve: Karissa could you start by explaining what the Dat foundation is and why it exists rather than the Dat project.

karissa: We were a reasearch lab that didn't go over 8 people. In the last couple of years it started running out of money and more people started using the tools. The idea of the foundation is that it can get some money and help people get grants and follow through via the non-profit. None of the development is coming from the dat protocol foundation. In the future we can see even less. Moving towards an idea of there being a consortium focusing on the keeping a cohesive story around cocumentation, managing working groups, communication, etc. I think people want to fund early stage projects that are exciting, or late stage that have millions of users. We're not exciting yet and are more middle stage.

frando: One question: The Dat Foundation, is it an exisitng legal entity that's separate from CS&S? Is the idea that the result of this meeting process would be to restructure the foundation to ahve more members raising these funds and managing these funds or is there a separation from the legal entity and the meeting process?

karissa: The Dat foundation is fiscally sponsored by CS&S. Staring a non profit costs too much in the US, so it make sense to be fiscally sponsored. Knda like enspiral. TO the second point, yes. That's kinda the idea of what this is about. If the dat project doesn't have money but projects have tools or money and want some event or things to be done they can talk about it under the umberella. I don't want to prescribe what this does. I don't feel comfortable, just because I've been around for a long time, and I helped start the non-profit side that I should just be in charge, and I don't feel comfortable with that and would rather you guys be in charge. I think it's more valuable if people in the community to be in charge.

frando: That's fine for now, I still need to read up on how 501-3 are set up and how that strucutre relates to these.

mauve: Personally, I think the Dat foundation will be useful for when we get to talking about money questions, but I think a lot of the work we're going to be doing in terms of talking to each other is almost orthogonal to that. We're going to be using this legal entity for when we need it, but it'd mostly be people collaborating together. I personally think it's a good idea though. The thing is, we can't avoid to deal with money under capitalism, so we can have a path forward so that more people in the community use this. karissa: is this similar to what CS&S is doing, but more for Dat?

karissa: Joe can probably speak to this, but I think in those regards Dat is a little bit unique.

joe: Yeah, most of our other projects have full time paid staff and project directors. How the governence works is that CS&S works as an umberella for projects that would generally be non profit but don't want to set up the infrastrucutre. They have advisory comittess that act as governence body for the projects outside of CS&S's board. Our project has a different level of committment for advisory comitees, some are more informal like Dat, some are more formalized around membership. That comittee is how it governs the leadership and financial spending and obligation. We allowed Dat to act as an idepndant organization but still have transparency around how it works. Link to what fiscal sponsorship means: https://osaos.codeforscience.org/whats-a-fiscal-sponosor/ If people are familiar with opencollecitve, that's a big fiscal sponsor for open source projects that use it.

serapath: What is the thing that it solves? Is it for projects to accept funding?

karissa: It could be. Like, "what if somebody gives 3 mil to the foundation", that's a small chance but it's not without precedent. I'm not even being payed by the foundation anymore. Basically it's just RangerMauve and a little bit of Joe Hand. I think just knowing that it's possible that donations can be coming in but there's very few people managing that. I wanted to bring visibility that this entity exists, and I don't want to be in control of it, and that it should be the community's.

mauve: Should we be figuring out how we as a community will be managing money? This kinda ties into the membership question. Is it that all of the people here are participating?

serapath: Maybe I can give my perspective. Because our projects is currently being funded by grants through the Etherium foundation is we're usually using smart contracts to solve these problems. They (gitcoin) also have grants but you can set all these rules rules that can be hardcoded into a contract and they can pay people based on the criteria. Gitcoin manages to pay small bounties based on tasks and small grants in short time. The admin overhead is fairly small.

karissa: SSB also has a microgrants program. There are different ways of doing it.

serapath: Legally, what we did was to open a UK company since you can do it online and it only costs 30 pounds a year. A 501-c3 is very complicated.

karissa: There's lots of companies that accept grants as well as do contracts, the 501-c3 can get a tax writeoff if you donate to it so people are more likely to donate to it.

## Membership?

mauve: What is membership? Should we even have it? What does it / doesn't it give us? Maybe I can start up with what I've been thinking. For  me, what I'd like to do is focus on getting peopel building on Dat together and building things. To me, if you're publishing open source modules or contributing to projects, or evangelizing, or helping push the community forward, then that would be enough to say you're a member, and from there we can look at keeping the signal to noise ration lower and figuring out how to communicate in more structured ways. That's what I've been thinking about membership, but I don't know if that's what y'all think, so any opinions or comments would be nice.

joe: With membership, even with the Foundation discussion. What is the goal of this community? Is it technical coordiation? Is it discovery or projects? Before we move to membershiop we should figure it out. Maybe it's better documentation? Maybe it's better visibility? It'd be good to figure out what the goal is so that it's useful for everybody.

mauve: Maybe we can add that as an agenda item, top priority. "What do you want the goal to be?", then we can go around and ask everybody and find commonalities.

sam: Discussing how you become a member is a bit premature since we need to figure out what the goal of having members is and what it means to be a member. Withtout that we don't know who is a member and how you become members.

mauve: Maybe we can punt the member discussion until we figure out what the goals are?

## Meeting frequency

mauve: We've had a really productive discussion today. It felt even longer than it actually was. One last thing - how often should we meet? So far I've been comfy with two weeks. Gives me a week to process everything and think about what to do for the next one. Also we're not moving super fast right now. Any comments on whether we should meet more or less often?

karissa: My ideal would be to keep it as 2 weeks. Then have people go and think about what they would want in the foundation. RangerMauve's position - working 10-20 hours a week. What are some of the things we want from the foundation? Going forward we can probably start making it less often. I think if we have it once a month right now we'd forget what happened last time.

cblgh: I think every two weeks is good. I'd like to adjust it for daylight savings time.

mauve: One hour in the future or the past?

cblgh: One hour in the future.

mauve: I hate daylight savings time, and then I hate timezones. I'll adjust the calendar for that.

sam: I agree with Karissa that at the moment two weeks is good, but later it'd be good to go less frequently. With better communication chanels we'd have less to talk about at this meeting.

mauve: Communication channels can be at the forefront of the next adgenda.

## Technical Discussions / Breakout Chats

mauve: Any other burning issue or comments before we conclude for the day?

noffle: I just wanted to clarify if it's a goal of this group to use this time to discuss technical issues together as well? Having all these people together in one places seems like a great time to talk about breaking changes and directions for components and stuff like that.

mauve: I think that would be idea, and having other channels for communication will be important, but having a place to talk about technical things will be important once we figure out all the organizational stuff, but that might be a few weeks away.

karissa: Also, having an updates section would be a nice place to be communicating new things too

mauve: Maybe an updates channel that different projects use together?

karissa: Oh, I meant the updates section of this call

mauve: Oh, yes! At the beginning.

sam: On the technical discussions, I personally wouldn't be too keen because too many peopel would be inefficient. Not sure what the best form is. Having a conference would be the best way, but I dunno how quickly you can have a discission with the number of people in the call.

cblgh: I agree with Sam, especially technical stuff because people can go on tangents because of passions. Timeboxing on technical stuff would be handy. The cabal group was good because people joined and talked about stuff. Having a space for people to shoutout topics and then people getting together. So that people that want to do it can do it and they already have this time scheduled anyway.

frando: +1 to using the group conversation to raise topics to discuss and reach out where theyll be discussed in detail. and then potentially report back on the next meeting.

mauve: I absolutely love that idea. What I really wanted to see from this group was people talking about something a little bit in this big group and then reaching out to each other after the fact to do the serious communucation. I think you're absolutely right in that it's better to have these discussions. I think even after the previous meeting, introducing everyone together helped get some discussions going after the fact. It seems like a lot of peopel were doing a lot of communicating over the past two weeks.

cblgh: yeah i think the meetings have already brought us closer and more aligned, even if itâ€™s been subtle

serapath: If there was a way to find all the projects and what they were working on. Like a standard, maybe IRC, would be helpful. Maybe this bi-weekly chat with breakouts would be useful.

mauve: One thing I could do to help with that would be to go over the notes and put together a document and share that with everyone. So people wanting an overview can have this one place to go.

## Conclusion

mauve: We're about 10 mins before the end which is a pretty good time. I just wanted to thank you all again so much for taking the time and thank you all so much for bringing your perspective and working through this all together. This definately isn't an easy task that we're doing right now. We've got such a diverse array of people and viewpoints, and it's so wonderful that we can come together like this to find paths forward and better understand each other. Thank you all so much. I'm going to send out an email Friday or Monday with a summary as well as some of the adgenda items. If you have any other ones, feel free to respond to the email thread. Also, do reach out to each other to talk more.  Thank you all so much for coming and I hope you have a wonderful day/night.