# Dat Consortium Meeting 4

Wed 2019-11-27, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_

## Agenda

- Updates from people
- Talk about fundraising
- Talking about dat foundation website
- talk about how people get added/removed from the calls (from okdistribute)
- Talk about consulting about how dat works (via foundation?) (from okdistribute)

## Meeting Notes

- feedback from [project-updates](https://github.com/datproject/project-updates) initiative.
    - so far it's going great
    - ~5 projects in there
    - feel free to add your project there or suggest others
- updates from people
- re-organizing agenda items
- fundraising:
    - cblgh talks about cabal situation. Currently no funding.
    - idea: applying as a consortium? scuttlebutt is starting to look into a similar model for the newly initiative'd consortium. Could be useful for applying on bigger grants. Create a pool of grants receivers.
    - Nina: could take a guerilla approach to grant funding; where we identify a set of grants as a community. and then each project individually applies for each grant. optionally we can then share any rewarded grants across all of the projects that are participating in the guerilla grantin'. Side effect: create some buzz around dat.
    - serapath: mentions wizardamigos having an online uk  bank account that anyone can apply for; useful for receiving grants
- dat foundation website revamp
    - merging project-updates repo with the [foundation website](https://github.com/datproject/dat-foundation-website). This could be helpful for keeping up the main site while minimizing relying in others tools/infra/integrations
    - main goal, making it easy to access and modifying commons
    - [sample project module](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/datproject/dat-foundation-website/release/site/projects/other-project.md) structure on dat-foundation-website
    - rangermauve is the only person working on this right now.


## Next

- Revisit talking about roles
- talk about how people get added/removed from the calls (from okdistribute)
- Talk about consulting about how dat works (via foundation?) (from okdistribute)
- Talk about adding wishlists to projects?

## Transcript

### Updates

- Mauve: Was working on hyperswarm-web, needed for Dat 2 of SDK. Got hyperswarm-proxy-ws - websocket based proxy, seems to almost work. Put on pause to work on the Dat Foundation website. Need to get it done to close current MOSS grant so we can apply to a new one.
- cblgh: Added QR code to cabal-cli. You can input a key or share a key through laptop camera. Noffle upgraded cabal-core to new protocol and hypercore, also new CLI. Trying to do the same for the desktop and update all the clients.
- diego: Working on [p2p commons SDK](https://github.com/p2pcommons/sdk-js), working on integrating hyperswarm. Looking at the corestore module.
- Kevin: Ara's desktop app connects creators and fans. Has two sides: Dat and Etherium. Has an ERC20 token called Ara (putting up on an exchange) , going to help fund Ara. Working a lot on file manager app. Got working on MacOS. Moving to Etherium mainnet. Measuring network performance from Dat side and going to log user success, looking at how well the system performs. Ara is under Littlestar in New York, jwerle and bcomes working delivering VR experiences for police training.  Planning to combine that with Ara. Working towards better compatability with dat and Beaker - want to have Ara File Manager do everything dat-desktop used to do.
- Mauve: Is the Ara file manager capable of loading stuff from the CLI?
- Kevin: Not yet, hope that that happens early in the new year.
- mathias: Testing out stable version of the daemon, really good, shared videos, running on new FUSE version that shipped without telling anybody. Setting up scaling tests for hyperswarm to get numbers out of it.
- nina: Trying out hyperswarm-proxy-ws, having some issues. Not sure how to fix it, will ask later for help. Trying to make hypertrie work in the browser. Focusing on bringing Dat into the browser. Working on [smartcontract.codes](https://smartcontract.codes/), 1000 smart contracts in a hypertrie. Want to put 70,000 contracts. Need to figure out how to bring it to the browser. Making a workshop in Thailand for WizardAmigos - Mostly JS, some are into P2P and Crypto. Mauve & Noffl & Mark Kaosat (author of JSCad). They helped us teach people basics of Dat and Cabal. Getting ready to start on datdot - a pinning service for hypercores. Got a grant from the web3 foundation - Going to use blockchain to make it work - ideas is to make it work without blockchain too.
- noffle: Digital Democracy folks finished trip to indigenous community in Peru rainforest, did training, 1.5 day trip by riverboat. Just finished and sounds like it went well. Working with substack to get multifeed-storage together, a multipurpose hypercore storage module, working with Frando who's doing a refactor to kappa-core - doesn't have to be tied to multifeed.
- pfrazee: [Got a new dev diary out](https://github.com/datproject/project-updates/blob/master/beaker-browser/2019-11-26.md) in the project-updates repo. Getting into a QA mood. Working with Andrew over screen share. Going really well. Working on a file explorer interface for Beaker - making it feel exactly the way you want it to.
- serapath: Planning for datdot - thinking about a whishlist per project - if there's modules that need to be made or reused it'd be good to see. Depending on how much needs to be done and how much time people have, it'd be good to have a list of people currently looking for work and what they can do. Getting insights into what to build and whom to work with.
- tony: Working on decentstack - idea is to make a small framekwork that'd be easy to use for new people but stull be powerful for others to use. Started breaking into separate modules. Released first demo of decentstack - exchange protocol - a standalone hypercore extension. Hope to come with more infrastructure updates next time.

### Fundraising

- clbgh: Noffle discovered [MOSS grants](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/moss/), curious about applying, so far cabal hasn't had funding - just good feels and friends, wouldn't be bad to have money to help with previous contributions and allow people to focus on it more. jhand reached out and said he'd be willing to review the grant when done, also could look t previous dat applications. There's not a lot of info on how you go about for that kind of stuff. Maybe we can apply as a consortium, but it might be too early.
- mauve: Serapath and I were talking about funding with regards to the foundation too.
- noffle: Seems like an ongoing grant, seems like good for people in this space. 10k to 50k and the application is pretty small.
- diego: Questions about what cblgh mentioned at the end about applying as a consortium.
- cblgh: No idea. What we've been talking about for the EU Scuttlebutt consortium was to use it as a network to find funding. Maybe applying as a consortium - depends on the grants with different requirements (e.g. someone with proven project, someone with academic background) can pick people for that. With dat we could identify a large grant and split the pot. Maybe apply to many grants and regardless of which project gets the grant, it'll spread around the pool of seekers. That's the primary thing we wanted with the SSB consortium.
- Kevin: On our side we're getting funding by doing our token on an exchange.
- Mathias: It's really hard, looked at EU funding - it's complicated and you need academic affiliations - need an university. Have to spend it between parties, actually not worth it. Look at local government funding. Often local government has small grants for innovation. Grant funding is really hard.
- nina: We just got a grant and wanted to share our experience. You have to know people in person, when they review the application they have no clue what you're talking about. If they know you they know your track record and know that you're proven. We got it from Etherium, because we were working for the foundation they know that they can trust us. Can't imagine where else to get them since we were there for 3 years. Before cblgh mentiond applyying as a consortium, I was thinking about gurilla advertising - low budget. Maybe this is something we could do, share the list of funding options and send 10 applications separately related to Dat, would cause Buzz. A gurilla approach to hack this grant system. Because we used Dat in the smart contract.codes with etherium conferences, now people in these ecosystems heard about Dat and have approached us because theyw ant to do something with dat. So not so much apply but try to find clients, and keep developing modules for the ecosystem but be paid for it. This could be a good alternative or additional way to get funding.
- mathias: Just pasted a [link](https://github.com/ralphtheninja/open-funding). This repo was made a while ago of grant resources that are relevant to Open Source. Relating to Dat consultancy, I'd be hesitant because it can be tricky unless you find a good client. You might end up spending time on stuff you don't want to do. Find peopel that want to use it as a core and can pay enough to make it worth doing. Look at microgrants too. Playing their game is sucky but that's just how it is.
- mauve: Also https://github.com/nayafia/microgrants
- serapath: We started out in Germany, very remote unfriendly and hard to work on Open Source. Academic researching, for about 50 bucks a year we could open a UK company for remote work and filing. Using this to invoice and recieve grants. In general we try to present Dat and advertise P2P and that's why we get appraoched. A community approached them with 50k a month: [dorg.tech](https://dorg.tech/#/), a collective of freelancers that work together transparently. Internally they have voting to split funding. Said they would like to use Dat. Becuase smart contracts are so expensive, every member could have their own accounting data in their own Dat and can publish all their Dat addresses with data to the smart contract. It should work in a traditional browser too. We got a lot of people from Nigeria and Taiwan to be invited to Osaka. That put Wizard Amigos on the road and Dat on the road. We haven't had success with applying for funding. Applied for grant from the NHS for patients to own their own data - it was hard and in the end it was about who knows people personally. Through wizard amigos we might be able to work on modules we want to work with. One thing in common is most want to use traditional browsers and are hesistant to use Beaker.
- mauve: Also linked to [unknown.fund](https://www.unknown.fund/) which is some sketchy crypto thing.

### Dat Foundation Website

- mauve: Dat got funding from MOSS a while ago, gina was working on creating a new map finding all the dat resoruces (websites protocol related things) and figure out a more cohesive structure. Gina has started working somewhere else since, but put together a map. Had some questions for the group around consolidating more dat resources in one place and getting people to work together. Are y'all okay with merging project-updates repo and merging it into the dat.foundation website? Can have it all int he website, instead of two places to manage it, it can be one place. Any concerns?
- nina: Maybe you could use the GH API and pull the data through the API?
- mauve: Main thing is that setting up workflows takes a lot of time, and discoverability is hard, in my experience in learnign about Dat it's been hard to know where things are, have to ask questions on IRC and there will be repos from 2 years ago that get mentioned. It's so spread out. It'd be nice if someone new can see resources all in ne repo. I like how in project-updates everyone has write access, it'd be nice if people had write access to dat website, so more people can take initiatives to contribute to the commons.
- nina: With 80 people you get peopel that have to merge things, we could practice when people can merge things, maybe for the webpage there could be some sort of editorial. I agree about being lost about finding information.
- cblgh: More docs and more entrypoints will be very good. If we keep it on GH, we could make use of GH actions. The project-updates thing is a precurser to working together - so far it has been painless which is good. Would like to support if can. Questions if Gina has thought about how to integrate different projects or maps or modules.
- mauve: Not 100% sure what Gina had in mind for different projects. [link to new website](https://github.com/datproject/dat-foundation-website/pull/123), there's a section for modules that's empty right now. There's a section for proejcts which is also empty. It'd be nice to put these things together.
- cblgh: SSB recently had a website update, [ssb.nz](https://scuttlebutt.nz/), that was community driven and funded through Handshake. It was a huge project that spanned many months, it's a good thing to keep in mind - it was funded and a big undertaking. Maybe we can learn from that and ask how it went.
- mauve: Maybe I can reach out to them and see if they have any tips.
- nina: Last time we figured out that eveyrone wants to update in their style. If we put updates in, we'd want more similar styles on the page. Would we all have to use the same style for about sections or it would look messy for the visitors.
- mauve: Yeah, the example project file has a MD file with a name/description/features flag. If everyone could use that and use more freeform text when people click it could be not super structured, but a little structured. So we have similar metadata, but after that it's up to the project.
- nina: I like structure, but understand that last time clbgh mentioned it'd be good to have freedom of how to explain themselves.
- mauve: Yeah, I don't think we need to impose structure on the posts themsevles. It's just markdown files. We could have a template to render posts. We could look towards the blog to see how stuff is structured there.
- serapath: My personal goal is to get away from big companies like Github - want to have freedom to post about project in the way that makes sense for our community. Maybe we can try to use Dat to post updates? Maybe have a way to pull from people's resoruces in one place so that we can have it one place and other projects can still have their own website.
- mauve: Yeah, that sounds really difficult. Maybe to start if you have your own ideas of how it should be strucvtured, maybe you can have your own website and the foundation site can link
- serapath: It'd be good if we could pull the data. Since not everybody would follow links
- mauve: Let me rephrase - I'm the only one working on it at the moment, todrobbins might help but not sure how much time he has. Every hour I spend on the website is hours I can't spend on anything else. I'm worried about taking on large projects where I'd need to write a bunch of code - which would be nice longterm but other things would suffer because of that. That's a huge worry I have. What's the absolute minimum to just have a structure so we can talk to each other.
- nina: I agree, lets not complicate it. Who is this for? Beginners? Maybe there could be some info and then links to the main repo for modules. Also for the grants it could look nice and polished. For now it could be enough and then we could build dat in the browser instead.
- cblgh: Let me know if you want to bounce ideas around. It's good to have something out there and have peopel find modules. It'd be an improvement over what exists now.

### Tehcnical meeting

mauve: Last time Mathias mentioned having a technical call after the consortium call. Ideas was to talk about core protocol development to get peopel together. Consortium call is for community side. Call is happening right after consortium call.

---

Next call Dec 11, same time.