# Dat Consortium Meeting 20

Wed 2020-08-05, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants
* Martin (facilitator)
* Diego
* Paul
* Kevin
* franz
* mauve
* nina
* karissa
*

## Agenda Items

- Dat Event Retrospective
    - dat event technical retrospective article/guide
    - bring your feedback!

## Next meeting

- Discuss the transfer to the collective
- Discuss the CLI

## Notes

- Martin: Dat event! It was last week (in case you didnt notice). We started to write down [operational retrospective notes](https://hackmd.io/fmt-SczuS5e4hF_UpHrXoA?both). We tried to write down what we learned, what choices we made and why (tooling choices, etc). General documentation. In the group, we met and finished our budget. We think we might publish the document on the homepage for next year / next time, and for other people to learn. Feel free to ask for additions. We can make today a free-form meeting, which I'm ok with, we did have a small free-form yesterday in the event WG meeting. [Notes from yesterday's meeting](https://hackmd.io/Lk3Np2aDTOCcBNyMpiZRkw). We took the $2000, we thought we'd use more things (and have more costs). We wanted to give Santiago the rest of the $ for the website work but he insisted that we get a little bit, so $100 for diego franz and martin for their effort. Also had a discussion about overall feelings on the event. I think it turned out okay. We had a lot of ideas that didnt make it into the event, lots that did, the scheduling worked quite well and the YouTube integration worked well. We did have some hiccups but glad overall how it worked out. Maybe next year we can meet in person. We wanted today to ask questions to the group about what we could improve, what you thought about it, and general feedback.
- Diego: We'll also get some feedback from tomorrow's comm comm.
- Franz: We were hoping for more people in today's meeting to get feedback, for now just paul/mauve/kevin.
- Kevin: The event was great. It was really cool. It was good that the timezones were not centered around CA. It would be cool to do a miniature version every 6 months rather than a big event every 1-2 years. Other idea: at littlestar we used to do events with partner orgs so that the communities would cross-pollinate. So for instance, indie web group + dat. Or ipfs + dat. Or dweb + dat.
- Martin: I think the partner orgs would be a nice idea. I liked the ecology talk. I think a makerspace + dat would be really interesting.
- Paul: First of all, I thought it was excellent and worked very smoothly. I know its not easy and you all did a great job of it. It was a great job. I just could barely show up on time and got my presentations ready. Was able to attend for all of it. The second day started at 4am my time so I had to skip a few. I was surprised by how well the open discussion session went. It was Mai that did that. We had the breakouts with BBB and we had the time to unmute and share. But I was surprised how well that worked out. I will say that Kevin's idea might be like a "meetup"-think. BBB was like 50bucks, and in the realm of meetup costs even like every month or two months could work.
- Mauve: I really liked it. It was a lot of fun, cool seeing all the talks and especially learning about the stuff I havent been super aware of. The timezone stuff was a little difficult to adjust to -- I was up at 2:30am -- so I crashed really hard afterwards. But I think it was worth it overall. One thing that stood out to me was having recordings available right away, that was one of the best experiences I've ever had in a conf, usually I'm waiting months or a year and it's a huge PITA so I really appreciated how your setup was so seamless and just got it out there. Thinking back to the in-person conf, I think I enjoyed this even more than that one with the exception of there being fewer seredipitous conversations. I think gather.town might have facilitated that. I dont know when it wouldve been realistic to squeeze chat times for that, maybe between sessions, but that's just a side-effect of vconfs and a lot of it is just watching people talk, so it misses some of the value of bringing people together. At the same time, I really liked the chat and it was pretty active, and I liked the interaction with the speakers, so that was really nice and made up for the lack of serendipity somewhat. I think the setup was really nice (streaming to YT and BBB). I'm probably going to propose a similar setup to Our Networks. I thought the facilitation was really well done.
- Nina: What can I say that mauve hasnt said! Really I was pleasantly surprised. Everything was super nice. The fact that we had immediate videos was amazing. Having the recordings immediately (or even at all) is really valuable. I was very happy about the support from the organizers. I was feeling a little bit negative about some of the past issues within the WG, but this was very nice so I'm glad we did it. One small thing I noticed: we're not diverse enough, mainly white males and two women. Maybe next time we could invite more diverse speakers proactively. I don't know how you arranged this with twitter, but I thought the promotion and reminders via twitter were very nice. I'd like to have more communication about the dat community in general (via twitter). +1 everything. Maybe every 2 months if feasible. Big thank you for organizing.
- Martin: About `gather.town`, we did ask for an offer to have it hosted for the event, we didnt know how many ppl but it was too expensive. They offered a discount but it was too late so we had to cancel it. About the diversity, we didnt exclude anybody -- we accepted all proposals. If there would have been more proposals, we wouldve been able to extend the event 6+ hours, so we didnt _select_ for white people. But it was pretty white, and we did notice it. I think diversity is also the responsibility of this group; we count it as a failure that we didnt announce the CFPs properly and some ways that we did the CFP didn't work. This was partly related to the newsletter not being prepared. We think we can do better on this next time.
- Karissa: Great job! I was happy to see so many people come out and so many talks, esp from outside our circle. Twitter was a big part of that. Whoever was doing the twitter (it was diego) did a great job with that. On diversity, it's something that all FOSS projects have to contend with, FOSS is often dominated by white men. Doesn't come for free, we have to do work on it. Next time, actively reaching out and inviting people would be good, sometimes it takes an extra push. Even if they havent contributed to the dat ecosystem, people may want to do talks. For a first conf, I thought it was very well executed. Wouldn't worry about the things that didnt go perfectly. Thanks for putting it on and doing all the work.
- Martin: I had some thoughts about what should become priorities for this group as I listened to the talks. Specifically, interoperability. Dat-fetch should receive some attention. Being able to fetch hypercores is something we should pay attention to. I also thought, during the events, trying to get practical applications out there is important, which is why I highlighted Don Blair's presentation on agriculture tech. If we can focus on tuning the software to real usecases, the world would be served. Another thing that I thought-- most of you might not have seen it because it was early morning on 2nd day, but the talk by Vinod about inclusivity and indexing. The indexing part was more about how we can make sure that we, as a technology, make sure that everything works for different languages, but the inclusivity was about how we can include different language groups in our efforts. Vinod is Indian living in Germany. He was very enthusiastic about it.
- Paul: minor observation on dat fetch topic, some energy around that. Talked with mauve about it. Trying to understand more the need for it. Its pretty clear there is interesting, still on my radar, working on a deep sprint now (beaker).
- Franz: For me one thing that emerged is that we have lots of project diversity, at the same time we have this meandering movement to find common solutions and reduce maintenance burdens, and I think that was apparent in several of the talks. At the moment, this process is moving quite nicely with little resources. Facilitation this process could be something that the focus of the consortium could lie. It could be by grants, but it could also be to help organize around documentation and finding these things -- that was the other quite apparent topic that's still quite hard to get started. The dat-sdk (and ranger's talk about it) seems like a great tool to have on that front. Having more docs seems important. A major project that could potentially be the consortium's focus is a shared documentation space, where the boundary between protocol docs and individual projects could be connected. I think that's something where some grant money could be put to great use, both in the sense of technical writing and coordination. Maybe some code sandboxes.
- Karissa: Agree on that. One thing I discussed w/maf is using the rest of the money in the pot for documentation and the ecosystem stuff that is necessary to bring the new work to the larger population, because it's not really available right now. I agree with dat-fetch and I think part of the success of dat was the ease-of-use of the CLI and we're doing a disservice to the community by not updating it to hyperdrive v10, so I'd also want to propose putting some of those funds to upgrading the CLI tool. A bunch of people come in every week asking about it, talking about the problems. We've built a lot of reputation around it. Just discarding it might be a disservice to the community, so I'd also want to include that as an upgrade to fund. Related to this, and we dont need to get into this today: proposals for spending money, what's the process for that; and proposals for adding more people to the consortium. Once we have more people it's easier to have committees and tasks can be rotated more easily. Until we have those in place, it's hard to figure out how we spend money.
- Martin: I heard from what you said that you're burnt out, I'm not sure if that's true or not, but we want to say thank you for your work and we tried to have your back.
- Karissa: That's true, thanks for highlighting that.
- Paul: The beaker team's going to be switching focus to documentation very soon and can begin to focus on that in ~2-4 weeks.
- Nina: When energy was being generated again, it felt like good old times. I really liked that we had only 1 track so that everyone was in the same room. It was a nice feeling. I got the feeling that dat is very much alive and this community exists. In light of this event and the buzz that wasnt just coming from just maf & paul, I got the feeling that there are more voices and a bigger community and that hypercore is really just a protocol that we've always been using. There's nothing new (in relation to the recent changes). So I got the feeling that dat is much more and that there are users and theyre using dat and some of them are using command line tools and sdk and there are all these things outside. I got the feeling that maybe the consortium's job should be not to throw that away. Showing care for the community that supports it. We should consider breaking the documentation out into community docs rather than one central group.
- Martin: I agree with that. We're at the end of the hour. Thank you everyone for your input. **Mauve will facilitate next time.** We have a WG for the transfer to the collective, I suggest that next time we have a review of that. I would also suggest we talk about the CLI next time. I would like to have andrewosh here next time.
- Mauve: Quick update on the collective transfer, waiting on CS&S to create an intro to the collective ppl, started drafting an email for next steps. Going well, just in the communication phase.
