# Dat Consortium Meeting 27


**2020-Nov-11 Wed**

## Participants

* RangerMauve
* Kevin Faaborg
* Franz
* Nina Breznik
* Paul Frazee


## Agenda Items

- Revisit Open Collective migration
- Manifesto talk
- Switch up the timing
- Your thing here

## Action Items

- Ranger and Nina will flesh out the manifesto and start seeking out agreement from the community
- Paul will get a new time/schedule sorted out
- Franz will facilitate next

## Notes


### Updates

- Franz: Been working on dat-sdk & hyperspace, got the hyperspace backend working in the browser https://github.com/datproject/sdk/pull/61
- Kevin: Not much to update in the last 2 weeks. Still working on upgrading the stack to hyperdrive 10 and a server-based install so it always works at least as well as the Web.
- Nina: Been working on the management of the logic & roles for an autonomous hosting network.
- Paul: Been a bit sick, taking it easy. Vacation time, can't remember the last time. Doing planning, looking at builds. Looking at stripping down stuff from Beaker. Been pushing social applications stack, got to point where were unhappy on results. Going to strip it down and bring it closer to hypercore tech. Felt like we were building a tower with weak foundations. Hyperdrive 10 wasn't really a DB but we were using it like one. Going to pause those ideas. Going to play with hyperbee. Making replacement for dat-desktop for hyperdrives.
- Kevin: Hopefully first wave of social apps can be built in userland.
- Paul: Have lots of learning after probing around in there.. Would be down to talk
- Ranger: Been working more on Agregore. Got IPFS working. Extensions work is going well. Thinking about access control for protocol handlers -- we dont want any webpage to create any drive, etc -- so we're working on an extension that prompts the user when a website tries to access another drive. Also: I started working at digidem and will be helping them with Mapeo web, which is a service for backing up mapeo data. I recently released hyperdrive publisher that should be useful for github actions, gives you a way to publish websites in builds for CI.

### Open Collective

- Ranger: Okay so RE the open collective stuff, I've collected questions from the last meeting (in these notes). Sent them to CS&S and got some questions back. Main question- what funds do we have left? Waiting for CS&S to hear. One thing from the OCF- we have to transfer the entirety of the funds. Other question was, will there be a fee taken out from the money we're putting in. The answer is yes, but probably less than the normal fee. Generally they take 8% out of any donations to the OC or 5% from crowdfunded, but they're open to taking a lower % so long as they can cover taxes and various fees. Havent said what % yet. There's no min donation-income per year and no yearly fee, unlike with CS&S. RE holding IP, OCF doesn't have anything for IP but the OSF does and OCF is considering adopting that policy. Alyssa from the OSF said that it's not an issue on their end to solve our particular issue. So even though it's a new situation they may be able to accomodate us. Now waiting to hear back from CS&S and asking any other questions that folks might have.
- Nina: The fees mentioned, these are fees the open collective takes?
- Ranger: They dont charge us fees when we use/withdraw the money, just when we get the money, and it will probably be <8% which is their usual rate.
- Nina: And CS&S wont charge us anything anymore?
- Ranger: Yes, they'll transfer the money and IP to the OCF.
- Nina: What amount of $ are left?
- Ranger: We're waiting to hear that from CS&S.
- Franz: I read all the emails also and the Open Collective people seem very straightforward and helpful. I'm hopeful this can all go over smoothly.

### Manifesto

- Ranger: Moving on to the manifesto now, last time Nina said she had started but there seemed to be a lack of community interest. Not sure where to go from here other than to discuss.
- Nina: I basically heard the community get stuck on membership, but then it depends entirely on whether it's a place for managing grants vs a place for people who are just working together. So we need to figure out what we want the consortium to be.
- Franz: The manifesto looks like a fine foundation to me. It's a good starting point. I think the invite-based membership seems like a safe default.
- Paul: I agree that the state of membership is important. We have to have some sort of process for managing the grants. The actual choices are whether or not there are two tiers. One for managing grants high trust vs one that's open for collaboration
- Nina: I agree, this is also a question that I myself don't have an answer for where I'm standing. Next thing when we resolve this is what we do next and whether we agree with the current summary. Then this two tier thing, and then once it's clear what are the next steps. Figure out a mini action plan.
- Ranger: We should probably reach out now to people to find out whether they're interested in getting involved, and perhaps put the proposal out through the mailing list.
- Nina: Good point, sometimes empty paper is hard, but if you give them proposals you can get their opinions. We just need to come up with some basic thing and then we can get input
- Ranger: I'd be willing to donate some time to reach out to folks but it would be nice if I had 1 or 2 others that helped out to build a list to see who should be pinged, have the proposal, and maybe divvy up who messages who. Maybe this is something we could make some noise about and ask them for help. Does anyone on this call want to help pester people to find out who is interested?
- Nina: I can help with this.
- Ranger: I'll message you sometime this week and we can sit down and figure out what we're doing, can we have a list of people and start reaching out to them.
- Nina: Perhaps we wait till the proposal is ready before we reach out.
- Ranger: Can you summarize the manifesto?
- Nina: It's a place for groups involved in this community to get together and discuss the shared work, a place to manage shared resources. Currently discussing whether it's a 2-tiered membership. As a long-term mission, we are creating tech that gives users control over their data, for scientists to share their data, we are creating a venue to manage crises or surprise issues, and we are creating a place to potentially share costs and workloads. Short-term action plan to achieve all this, figure out where we're at with funds and IP and resource-control (accounts) and how do we agree on how those resources are used. Maybe the next question to ask is, should it be 2-tier or not? I personally think letting the meeting be open would make decision-making difficult and might get people without a stake in things involved.
- Paul: Having a single tier that's open sounds like a non-starter. Making the decision making be that open for actual concrete resources. Question is is it to use the consortium directly for people to get together or not. We do want a portion to be dedicated to conversations. Maybe we can invite more people to these calls. If we don't want to do that we should ask about where we congregate. If we want to invite more people we should do the two tiers, if not we should keep the calls more private
- Nina: Do you think we should limit to make it more efficient?
- Paul: No opinion on inviting, I think we should not have open participation in money and twitter accounts. I'd be happy to invite more people if we had a two tier system.
- Ranger: Just to confirm, the 2 tiers would be 1) collaborating and talking, and 2) for stewardship of resources, which comes with more responsibility.
- Paul: That's been my assumption
- Franz: I agree with what Paul says and I think it's easily doable because the only difference would be would be that tier 2 has an actual list that's invite-only and everyone has to agree to any invites, then we can be more loose about inviting people to calls. Maybe some method for that, maybe not? Wouldnt necessarily require separate calls
- Paul: +1 on not having separate calls
- Kevin: I think 2 tiers sounds fine for the purpose of handling money/twitter/etc.
- Nina: Maybe we should update the manifesto's mission, because the consortium is actually managing resources and should promote the higher goals for the tech. Our job is to manage those resources.

### Meeting time

- Ranger: It seems the meeting time isnt working for some folks because we're around the world. It might be useful to find alternating times or something else to reach a wider group. Would anyone be willing to take the lead on this?
- Paul: Do we want to alternate time between east and west side of the world? I feel like if we ask a question that's general, might not get a response. Any feelings in this group? I can do an email and see what people absolutely can't do.
- Nina: I like the idea of saying it's wednesday but the actual time could be done via a tool. In the comm comm there were calls in Asia but nobody was on.
- Paul: Not sure about how many people we have that are in Martin's situation.
- Nina: Franz is also in EU, is there anyone else? Alex? What works for you?
- Franz: If it gets later, this meeting moves from work time into free time. Not too fond of it. Might be fine with 2 hours later.
- Nina: Maybe if we wakes up early at six, that could work
- Franz: 9-10 PM Belin would work, can't do later.
- Paul: What is the time for you right now?
- Franz: 7-8 PM
- Paul: Hard to move. West coast is 10 AM, moving earlier wouldn't help. I personally wouldn't want to do much earlier than 9.
- We should ask if two more hours actually changes things.
- Nina: We have a collaborator from Taiwan, we do it 12 our time and 7 their time. But then we lose the US because it's during the night
- Mauve: How late during the night? I could do a night once in a while.
- Franz: I can do a night once, should ask the other EU people. Andrew and Maf aren't around but not sure if it's because they're doing other stuff.
- Kevin: can also do strange times of night.
- Paul: By the sound of it, anything other than a rotating time isn't feasible. Sounds like it'll be alternating between US vs Japan friendly
- Nina: So night owls can jump in

### Overview

- Next time Franz facilitates

#### Open Collective Foundation questions - Follow-up

Questions (sent by Mauve):

1. What amount of funds are we going to be transferring over to the OCF?
2. Will there be some sort of percentage taken out of that on the initial transfer?
3. Is there some sort of minimum donation goal that we need to acheive per year?
4. Just to confirm, is there anything special that needs to be done to trasfer the Dat Foundation's IP over to the OCF?

Answers (sent by Allana Irving, Executive Director of Open Collective Foundation)

1. OCF does not allow parallel fiscal sponsorship, so you'd need to move all the money over. I'm talking with our lawyers and the OCF board about potentially loosening this restriction, but I can't make any promises. For now that agreement you'd need to sign onto specifies that you can't keep money in any other accounts while OCF is your fiscal sponsor. This restriction does not apply to Open Source Collective.

2. OCF's fee structure is here. Normally it would be 8%. We can look into agreeing a lower rate for the initial funds transfer, as OCF wasn't involved in helping you raise those funds, but a lot of the overhead costs we incur are associated with managing payouts of funds, not just income, so we can't waive fees on those funds entirely.

3. No minimum, no yearly fee. We only charge the % on income.

4. OCF is not yet set up for holding IP. Open Source Collective is. We've done the legal groundwork for OSC and I've proposed to the OCF board we adopt a similar framework, but it will take some time to work with lawyers and the board to get that ready.
