# Dat Consortium Meeting 19

Wed 2020-07-22, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants
* cblgh (facilitator)
* Mauve
* Diego (notetaker)
* Martin Heidegger
* pfrazee
* frando
* kevin feighborg
* sam macbeth

## Checkin

- Sam: Last time I shared that Cliqz is shutting down and noone is going to save us. I am not workig on dat stuff at the moment.
- Paul: Working pretty hard on some product sprints right now. Adding window management. Adding more user-land features. We are trying to push the "hyperspace as database" a little more. To categorize information semantically so we know where to put information and provide things like search. Which hopefully in the not-so-far future allow secondary indexes to be shared on the network. (Followup in notes by paul after:) also spoke with Calm_Rad about his work on the mobile hyper:// browser called Gateway, he's making great progress on that.
- Mauve: Pretty busy Natakanu release last week. Like a p2p file transfer based on electron. I am starting to work on Consento team to get hyper stuff working on react-native I think. Have also been working on agregore and bring it to a usable state. Recently added find-in-page but I would like to work on my fetch module a little more and bring that into agregore later. I am also talking about getting the IPFS grant to also make a ipfs-fetch that uses the same structure.
- Kevin: ... Podcaster to release podcasts and get paid for it without platforms taking a cut. The recent good news is that we got tokens live. So la-token are now public and we are trying to get it to new markets. From now on we are trying to work on hyper-10 and make sure that any link can be easily shared without a lot of setup.
- paul: hyperspace (replacing hyperdaemon) is pretty much production ready! hyperspace has a data migration required; hyperdrives will change data structure
- frando: I am on one part still working on sonar, and we are looking to have some ready to show on dat conf and mostly working on some schema stuff ready then. For generic indexing for the messages as schema has available. Looking for similar things like paul before looked into like unwalled.garden. And also tried making it easy to run bots. The other half of my time I have been looking into dat-rust. Mathias who joined the project recently who basically implemented a working version of hyperswarm recently and I have been recently implementing a rpc implementation that hypercore uses and we have now a nice surface for a potention node-daemon replacement. I have been a bit involved in the dat conf. Crowded weeks.
- Diego: I continue working with p2pcommons project and these days doing some exploratory work with a simple permanent seeder solution.
- Martin: working hard on the dat event site and everything related. Last update a nice sns links, if you share event link on tw/fb/etc it will display a nice talk card image. Also working on getting libsoudium to work for a consento project. Portability issues. Bringing Abort signal to nodejs. Maybe it will find some way in the future into hyper-APIs. Also going to start working with Mauve :tada: github actions ci for testint react native deps, that tool might be useful for testing other projects too.
- cblgh: took some days off. article released: [link]. collaboration with []. Had small meeting last week, it was nice. Working on a kappa thing that also uses cabal.

## Agenda

- Dat Event Update (martin/diego/franz?)
- Dat Migration Working Group Update (mauve/kevin/franz?)
- Newsletter (paul?)

## Notes

### Newsletter

- Group-chat with Frando/Diego/Martin.
- Decisions:
    - We stuck with mailchimp as its the simplest/cheapest solution. Might become more expensive in future
    - We chose a domain-name for the news-letter to come out which is https://dat-newsletter.org and the email address at hi@dat-newsletter.org and I had to setup.
    - On my personal books I paid for gsuite and the domain. As soon as we have some kind of orga to move those to let me know. Thats about it.
- Questions:
    - Mauve: Who currently has access to publishing the newsletter?
    - Paul: Diego/Frando/Martin but we can give access to anyone interested

### Dat Event Update

- martin: [pretalx](https://github.com/pretalx/pretalx) used for cfp. good tool. scheduling and mails to speakers have been done with it. got it that up and running. We have 72 people signed up on eventbrite. BBB instances has a limit. Working on the homepage, open for contributions. PRs always welcome. Getting closer to set up video systems. None of the free livestreams solutions can be properly emdedded in websites for just an event. Issues with 3rd party cookies. We probably end up directly linking against youtube/twitch. Brother set up a computer that we can use for doing the streaming (from BBB to yt/twitch). One presenter dropped put another one was added. Reason for drop out was that presentation felt not that technical.
- Using [OBS studio](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio) as a broadcaster tool. BBB <---> twitch/yt. Looking for help on this :pray: Also looking for help on marketing, sharing the voice.
- marketing help (sharing / RTing official links) v appreciated.
- cblgh: question? => We were thinking on having a small workshop instead of a talk. Is it possible?
- franz: should work if you want you can all try the paltform, we are going to use BBB. You can use a demo server running on BBB site. If not just ping franz and he will sent an invite. Everyone in a BBB room can select cameras, you can also add a pdf presentation and share it with the audience. There is a moderator feature, only one person, the moderator can change slides, one slide view for everyone. The moderator role can be passed around btw people in the room. Also can play videos (yt support). Also had a group chat. Had some succesful workshops experience. Also it would be good for the workshop to share any details in the pretalx talk description.
- BBB instance that we got is capable of managing aroun 100/150 people
- :tada:

### Dat Migration Working Group Update
- (moving dat from cs&s to open collective)
- https://github.com/datproject/organization/issues/16
- mauve: last week wg meeting: [link]
- first thing is getting in touch with CS&S. Also thinking of going into the fiscal sponsor of OC. Scuttlebutt uses it. Still got some questions to figure it out. Logos on website are still valid/okay to use.
- Netlify and cloudfare accounts need migration.
- More importantly, who wants to be in the board? responsibilities, add/remove people/tasks... We (wg) dont want the board to be a regulatory/deciding party, mostly be people having access to approbing OC funds rather than making decisions. Decisions should happen in consortium group calls.
- Looking for volunteers. Any ideas welcomed!
- Feel free to comment on the GH issue. [link]
- getting funds out of cs&s.
- migrate stuff
- formalize legal structure.
- franz: ideas on how to create the initial board?
- mauve: do you want to go 1 on 1?
- franz: hands on approach, maybe set a date. So we can have a list of an initial board ready.
  - diego: ok with franz and wg, happy to help.
  - martin: adding/removal should be trough votes. votes, we should make mandatory voting, and make it easy to know people if there is something important to vote, so people can be aware.
  - franz: when it comes to vote, we should aim for high percentage, consensus oriented way. Open to be part of initial board
  - kevin: pass, agree
  - mauve: agree with franz. Likes nodejs wg? they seem to have a process where voting is like a last resort, always looking for a solution, opening discussions, woudl like to experiment more this approach. taking it slow might be good for making decisions. formalizing some things, like add/removal, we can copy some things from dat protocol wg. would be a good start. interested with helping with board stuff
  - cblgh: part of ssb european consortium, have some docs that can share here. something that can contrast with nodejs approach maybe.
  - paul: +1 feel good about the direction this is going. also thinking about reducing overhead, very strong reason to looking for consensus.
  - sam: pass, sounds good
  - cblgh: consensus sounds good. Clear policy when peopel is removed is important. Agree. :+1:
  - cblgh: any ideas for dates?
  - franz: nothing fix yet, but maybe a timeframe, 2/4 weeks.
  - cblgh: optimistic to say to migrate around september?
  - franz: sounds good to me.
  - mauve: september would be nice. needs to talk with cs&s. also needs to reach OC to know more about times. Need more data so we can be more sure.
  - cblgh: its not that hard to get money in there, from that POV is easy, dont know much about bureacry in OC.

### dat event
- talk slots available, cfp link at the bottom of events site.
-  https://conf.consento.org/dat-event-2020/cfp
- missing a talk that EXPLAINS THE DAT FOUNDATION oops caps (state of dat consortium / the rebrand / dat ecosystem)
    - paul :trophy:
    - will submit proposal!
    - martin: if karissa or maf could be part of this, it would be nice.
    - cblgh: sending an email about this would be nice
    - paul: would do it. dat collective/consortium, hyper rename, the foundation status, sounds right? :+1:
    - THANKS!

## Action Items
* share newsletter credentials
* update newsletter scripts (old signup issue)
* paul sends email re talking about dat foundation & hyper rebrand
* next facilitator: martin ! :medal:
