# Dat Consortium Meeting 11

Wed 2020-03-18, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Attending

 - Sam Macbeth (facilitating)
 - Diego
 - mauve
 - cblgh
 - karissa
 - Martin Heidegger
 - Frando

## Previous action items

- cblgh: Put together poll for dates and event formats
    - pick which time intervals you can attend a physical event: https://www.strawpoll.me/19484840
    - pick what kind of event you would prefer: https://www.strawpoll.me/19484885

## Agenda

- revisiting poll
- decision on if there are any blockers to forming dat advisory committe under cs&s
- talk about what is dat even

## Notes

### People intro / Check-in

- everybody has the ~:corn:~ virus freak out / distraction
- Cabal has a small physical surprise for community members, see more [--->here<---](https://github.com/cabal-club/commons/issues/9) (and pls send yr physical address to nettle by Sat, 21 Mar!)
- Diego working on [P2Pcommons sdk](https://github.com/p2pcommons/sdk-js) integration with hyperdrive daemon
- Frando had a meeting last week, still working on sonar.
- Karissa, working with digital democracy. Helping out with peermaps. Peermaps got 50K from Samsung. Also got 50K for dat from Nlnet
- Kevin, ARA token is out.
- martin: started to put together a set of tasks that Consento wants to sponsor in regard to getting the dat-sdk working in React Native. would love to have feedback, see more in the [link](https://hackmd.io/@tLmcTTPzSDOXZMgX3EDS_g/dat-x-react-native/https%3A%2F%2Fhackmd.io%2F2zbCZVv2TOeCAEg5WFY9cw)
- mauve, progress on local file sharing app, mvp soon for [DatDot](https://github.com/playproject-io/datdot). Been working on hyperdrives updates (destroy method). Plan to integrate this work on dat-store soon.
- Paul, security update on beaker. Working with feedback from closed beta of beaker.
- Sam, nothing much on the last week hope to start getting back to work soon.

### Revisiting poll for event
- cblgh, viewing the poll results and removing the phisical meeting from the options for now. To continue with this it would be good to a clear initiatiator for this event who takes the responsability. Possible date, early august?
- frando, prefer to do a virtual conf. A bit earlier than august. Agree with the initiator but we can do it collaboratively since everything will be remote. Happy to help. Possible date june/july.
- mauve: is going to be helping a conf soon in Toronto. Can reuse the planning from that experience. Dont have time to lead now.
- Karissa is supporting a online conference, interested in helping mauve and learning.
- (Sam & others) Sooner would be better for the conference, particularly since people now have a lot of things cancelled during the summer.
- karissa: +1 on sessionize.com, looks like an easy way to manage this
- Frando & Diego would like to create a group to organize the online dat event/conference
- martin: if nobody else wants to champion the event, i will
- karissa will help too
- frando wonders if martin is willing to commit to reminding the event working group of getting started
- martin: sure!

online dat event working group is: martin, diego, frando and karissa

- martin: do you guys think that the discourse forum is a good place to organize stuff?
- mauve: we have a github repo for organizing the Our Networks conference, using github milestones. proposes to copy the process from Our Networks
- diego: +1 on keeping organizing public
- mauve: link to ournetworks orga https://github.com/ournetworks/2020#organizers

### revisiting blockers regarding dat advisory committe
- link to hackmd: https://hackmd.io/yn9I9NPHSayCN11jhG4sMA
- previous blocker: no consensus at what dat means right now.
    - counter proposal: maybe we don't need to pin that down exactly before starting this process
- karissa: problem is the public perception of what dat is (historically been CS&S, original code creators of its modules).
    - dat has been around along enough that its stuck into the niche public perception.
    - there's an opportunity to use the dat branding to get grants
    - other projects are getting investment funding, or grants for their projects - which muddles the public perception?
    - practically: could use the cs&s to funnel money
    - reasons for forming the advisory committee: can use the fiscal sponsorship to accept grant money, or spend the dat open collective money.
        - For some projects it is interesting to be part of or make use of CS&S: cabal is interested
        - paul: beaker does not have anything immediate use of the cs&s for the above points
        - frando: sonar would have use of cs&s for grant help. would also nice to be able to use the dat foundation label to push the rust implementation forward
        - sam: wondering if we can use the cs&s opportunity to fund maintenance / development of core modules / core development - with money going into the community for core development.
- karissa: cs&s takes 15%, but help you with getting grant, reporting, accounting, healthcare (in US) etc. opencollective takes 10% but offers no/little help.
- mauve: was talking to the ssb community, ssb is applying for some grant. were interested in working with the dat project, but legally that means that karissa is the only person representing the dat from a legal perspective.
- karissa: mafintosh used to be more involved with the cli development but not recently (past 9 months?). unsure of what is meant by _core development_. funders are always more interested in funding something new, which is an important perspective - people might be more successful using their own 'project brand'. if you need to have an existing community to access funding you could instead rely on the past 7yrs of history that exists with the dat community
- cblgh: _the consensual hallucination that is dat_
- martin: concerned with brand being used in too many disparate ways / confusing the dat project's image. cs&s has the brand / hyperdivision in denmark has a lot of the modules. We as a group have the task to clear up what dat is.
- karissa: important to point out that hyperdivision / mathias has the IP on github (of the underlying modules). interesting to note that the rust implementation has a lot of interest / its quick movement recently
- karissa: want an outcome of this agenda item (the dat advisory committee)
- mauve: maybe we can list the people interested in the dat advisory committee existing write themselves up in [this hackmd document](https://hackmd.io/yn9I9NPHSayCN11jhG4sMA?edit) - sign up at the bottom
- karissa: scenario. say we have an committee with 5 ppl. and a project applies for a grant for 250k, and they use cs&s for grant help and accept. the advisory committee would make a decision on whether to accept taking on the grant, and then approving the grant's concrete budget. if the budget has changes after the fact the advisory committee has to accept the change.
    - cblgh insight: oh it's basically an oversight committee
- karissa: say you apply for a grant and yr not on the advisory committe but you want to use the cs&s fiscal sponsorship. you'd probably want to be on the committee to provide context for project/grant related stuff.
    - conflict of interest policy: if they decide to start their own thing that's competing with one of the projects, you could decide what that conflict of interest means. you can help decide the conflict of interest policy basically
    - frando, how exactly best way yo move forward with the committe?
        - Karissa, This can happen offline. We have to fill the doc and share your CV. Full name, contact, we can start from there, it can happen async.
        - martin, can we use the foundation for funding the dat event?
            - Karissa, yes

## Future action items
* Martin has poked the members of the online event working group to get it started
* Create _(public facing)_ group for the online event
* coordinate interest of dat advisory committee on the mailing list
* karissa facilitates the next meeting

# Technical Meeting notes

### kappa-core group updates

- Karissa: Kappa-core groups had a meeting. Talked about specifying what they're doing more clearly. Past years have been needs based - rapid development. Alex and Frando and Substack and Kira have been very involved in the process. Stepping back to see what they've done. Decided to move forward with specification a bit more clearly - won't necessitate hypercore. Starting with a spec for blind replication - first feature that seems to be shared between groups. Have some money from NLNet (50k) for blind replication for Dat feeds. Gonna apply 12k for specifying the blind replication and multifeed / kappa-core. Not necessarily about hypercore, more about the cryptography - the public key that tells you other feeds available. Frando - not sure if youv'e talked about sparse replication and the view stuff
- Frando: When working with kappa-core you usually have a colleciton of feeds that are replicated together - like cabal or sonar. Currently all these projects do not support sparse mode of hypercore. Always downloads all feeds. Each feed is defined by the key and its sequence number which is downloaded, then views are built on top. To make this scale for many/long feeds we need to support sparse. kappa-sparse-handler takes a collection of feeds and builds up a log of downloaded key+index tuples. Creates ordering for the state. Else would need a separate bitfield per feed. Makes it easy to subscribe on a set of feeds. Cobox is using it in kappa-drive. Reduced strong coupling between multifeed and hypercore. For this indexer, a feed is just an append only log. Can then couple that with substack's hypercore-query-extension. Send queries to peers and they respond with touples to add to your log. WOrking well, still alpha stage. If interested look at module link in the chat.
- karissa: Digidem updates: mapeo moving to sparse replication for kappa-core, doing p2p app updates. Idea is that when you start a handshake, you establish you want to do a sync, one side needs to approve. COnsent based approach - nice because once you connect they know your IP. You connect and give version to both sides. If not on the right version, will use a blob store download and upgrade to the latest version. Don't need a central connection for the latest version of the app. Then update the version and sync with each other to ensure the sync will work. Enables getting new version even without internet. Has good security properties - can verify each version without a centralized service. Also cool for censorship cases, if you can't get the latest version you can get it from peer. Kira said there will be a prototype in two months.
- Frando: Question - one of the last meetings andrew and mathias talked about something in corestore where it would start to use a hypercore extension to send around bloom filter of keys in the store to speed up key exchange process. Wondering if this is already available or if there's a doc that talks about the idea in depth. Haven't looked into bloom, but looking at exchanging keys with peers.
- Paul: DOn't know if it's pubished, but know they've been optimizing for that. Looking to send data for hypertrie. DOn't know if they're using a bloom filter
- Mauve: I don't think it was corestore, but might be in hypercore-protocol repo
- Martin: Been installing dat-node on Ubuntu, udp-native module doesn't build on node 12 because it's outdated and part of discovery-swarm. Is somebody taking actions or are there actions to take on maintaining the old modules or marking things as outdated.
- Paul: Just need to update utp-native in discovery-swarm. Hyper stack isn't using discovery swarm
- Karissa: Found issues in discovery-swarm in mapeo, would recommend using hyperswarm. If youre depending on dat-node, either start using the dat SDK (might be more work since dat-node has more magic features), create a pull request to dat-node that replaces discovery-swarm with hyperswarm.
- Martin: Looked, but found that discovery-swarm and hyperswarm aren't compatible. So changing would break it.
- Karissa: What you would want to do is ensure that your application is updating so people can get the latest version. As long as you have a major bump and both sides are using hyperswarm it should be okay.
- Paul: TO add to that, hyperswarm and discovery swarm are different and aren't compatible.
- Martin: That would mean hashbase won't work
- Paul: Hashbase isn't going to update, new Beaker using hyperswarm. Not out of the question, if there's a consensus that that's what people will do. Keeping hashbase on discovery-swarm for now.
- Martin: Is there a reason they're exclusive?
- Paul: Yeah, they're just different. Discovery-swarm mostly using a DNS tracker for connecting peers, hyperswarm uses a DHT. I guess it would be able to get hyperswarm to fall back but I don't know if it's worth doing
- Karissa: In our experience it's a lot easier to have people upgrade. Less buggy and take you less time than trying to merge these networks
- Martin: For me the only blockinng issue is hashbase.
- k: question for mauve --- dat-store as a replacement for hashbase? is it on hypersawrm, m: that's what I'm doing the SDK stuff for Just need to add the destroy method to hyperdrive and it's good to go
- Paul: Not sure how hard it'd be
- cblgh: Has the browser version crypto problem been documented?
- pfrazee: I think that got fixed over the past two weeks
