# Dat Consortium Meeting 26

**2020-Nov-04 Wed** (reschedule)
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20201104T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants

* Martin Heidegger (Facilitator)
* Mauve
* Joe Werle
* Nina Breznik
* Serapath
* Franz

## Agenda items

<!-- - <item> (by <name>) -->
- Updates on OpenCollective migration (by Mauve)
- Talk about pinning hypercores (by Mauve)
- Comm-Comm updates (by Martin)
- Inviting Tradle (by Martin)
- What's with the Consortium manifesto? (Nina)


## Notes

### Intro

- Martin: Lots of stuff happening in the US, nodeconf is happening, people are occupied. In the midst we have the dat consortium call. Sorry for last week. Maybe we can start with what happened since last time.

- Mauve: I finished the contracts on my Natakanu project. Latest work: multi hyperdrive and ipfs in the Agregore. Talking to Martin about stuff for Consento, Sodium changes were made. Might also work with Digital Democracy. Talking to folks it seems like it could be useful to work on a seeding service API for hypercore, maybe base it on IPFSs pinning API to invent fewer things.

- Nina: Working on Datdot. Running JS chain simulation that we're translating into Rust with Joshua. Learning rust a little which is exciting. Started running, did 160 KM run in the last month, going to repeat in next month.

- Martin: Been running last year, helped me a lot.

- Joe: Been very focused on another project, haven't had a lot of time to do the things I want to do. Nothing new. Wanted to show stuff in comm comm. Worked on a project to launch an Android TV app with this "watch together chat thing", using the Android TV remote and voice to chat to people. Was exciting to learn the Google Assistant actions API and to set that up. Google's docs are inconsistant and what they say isn't true sometimes. Were very heads down to get that done by last weekend. TVs are very weird, have to be careful about memory.

- Alex: Helping Nina, also working on Datdot. Moving, but slowly. Nothing new that I can share. Currently focusing on iframes in the browser, and how to manage recursively created iframes. A bit new and I have to get used to it. Iframes and depending on domains of service workers can be messy. Hear Mauve's pinning thing, would be nice if there was something standard we could adopt.

- Martin: FInished massive chunk of work on Consento, kept me busy for months. Through with that, working on making an information system on top of hypercores which should allow for end to end encrypted hypercores. Encrypted hypercores that also have a permission system where you can add and remove devices from being able to write to a hypercore. Specifies who is allowed to write. Multi-writer system that's in a more secure context with end to end encrypted zero knowledge hosting. Happy to be back in the dat system and been noisy in the hypercore channels to have things merged. Also have updates that we're trying to get something like IPFS into consento because content addressability can help with performance. Have a hash to reference images.

Frando: Quite a few things going on. Last week, stunbled into a non-dat project doing full text search on audio using automatic speech extraction. Also connected to Sonar in that we want to integrate it with p2p things. Past two weeks, been away from Dat things. That'll change again. No concrete things to report. Looking again at using multifeed over hyperspace.

### OpenCollective migration

Mauve: It's been months now to get this stuff figured out. @serapath seemed to be right about the '501c6'. it looks like Open Collective is not appropriate for this, so we can't get tax deduction when donating.
There could be a solution, if Dat would be registered with Open collective as a social good and we could sort it out this way.

There would be 2 ways to continue from here: to register as social good with Open Collective or to go and open our own Fundation.

Alex: What is the impact of previous tax deduction (when we were still under CS&S).

Mauve: If we get a big donation, people who donate don't get the tax back, so they might be less incentivized to donate.

Joe: Kevin/Zootela could know more.

Nina: As far as I know it's beneficial to be registered as '501c6' is to be able to get donations from companies or orgs who rather donate than pay taxes at the end of the fiscal year. And another thing is maybe - if it's a requirement for getting a grant. But not sure if any grants have this as a requirement.

Mauve: We could compile questions and then I could ask and come back to y'all.

Serapath:
* I wonder what could be a common good purpose given there is no protocol, but
  * agregore, ara, beaker, cabal, consento, datdot, geut, little-core-labs, sonar
* Also, what are the costs in terms of administration and dollars for a 501c6 or whatever, so how much income from donations are necessary to make it worth it?
* Instead - if we skip the tax deductability, we could set up a regular org for less than 50 bucks per year instead with basically no administrational overhead.

Mauve: I am not interested in starting a US non profit. That would mean many more months to figure things out. I would go for transfering to Open Collective for now and then think how to transition to even something better if needed.

Martin: There is a financial component, we should be knowledgeble about it. THe taxation and fees only become relevant once we begin doing things. Until then things are a delay. The more direct route to get started doing things would be what I prefer. Would appreciate questions in the discord chat and meeting notes. To me open collective is fine. Creating an org is not in my interest.

Nina: I remember from a call with Danielle that there would be a prolem transferring to somethign that isn't a 501c6. IP can't be transferred to a regular org because they're legally bound for it. Can we transfer even if we're not a 501c6? Second, if we transfer from one to another, do we lose any money because of the fees. How much money is it even? It'd be important to be clear what we're talking about because small amounts might not matter as much.

Franz: Agree, not fond of setting up an NGO at the moment. Don't have time and capacity for it. Okay with moving to Open Collective. The question of the asset transfer we don't have a definite answer on that. What I think is we need another quick meeting with someone from CS&S. An online meeting would make sense. Just to know for sure, can we transfer.

Mauve: Just to confirm, if you got the latest email from Alisa which says: that Open Collective is a '501c3(?)' (if we become social good). '501c6' is a regular tax-deductive, but that's not what Open collective offers.

Nina: So '6' means a legit Foundation/NGO that can accept tax deductable donations and IP can be transferred there, but Open collective doesn't offer this (only if we alone start a new org). And '3' is a special sub-status that Open Collective offers to us as a social good group and it could also accept tax deductable donations and take over the IP from the CS&S. Is my understanding correct? If yes, then no problem, '501c3' then sounds like an easier route and comes out of the box (through Open Collective).

Mauve: Yeah. I will double check, but I think that's it.




Mauve: Lots of folks expressed interest in pinning for hypercores
* Lets have a meeting with people who are interested in that
  * datdot
  * sonar
  * consento
* Will set up an email to invite everyone to a meeting to discuss this

### COmm comm updates

Martin: Have been picked up by Nina again. Will be having the next comm comm in 6 hours. Would be nice if it could be shared on Twitter. Updated the comm comm website and github repo to mention Diego isn't hosting anymore and that it's hosted in a group. There's a hackmd where we filled in the schedule. Still has an open slot. Can add yourself there if you're interested: https://hackmd.io/5KHSxqrOQPSCTz6tUjMK-Q?both Was a bit late to enter todays comm comm in the issue tracker, but it's okay to have the next few in there already. Can help people prepare more for it. There are some old issues that are open that I plan to close.

### Zoom / Jitsi

Martin: Regarding zoom or jitsi for the comm comm. We first started with Jitsi and started using Zoom from Karissa's recommendation. Used what seemed best at the moment. If you want to host a comm comm you can use whatever tech you want.

### Inviting Tradle

Martin: Talked to the Tradle guys, they've been active in the Discord, wondering if we should invite them here, should we wait until we have the manifesto?

### Manifesto

We should prioritize it for next week and get it finished sooner than later.

## Next Facilitator: Mauve