# Dat Consortium Meeting 17

Wed 2020-06-24, 9pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=9pm&tz=Berlin&)_



## Participants

- Mauve
- Diego
- Frando
- Martin
- cblgh
- Paul Frazee (notes)


## Action item review

- Newsletter

## Agenda items

- Updates on Dat Event
- Review goals on community / Vision

### Updates

- Paul: Hyperdrive daemon is getting refactored into "hyperspace", taking opinion out of the daemon so it works with veriety of hypercore datastructures. Helps with usability and maintainability, helps people work on non hyperdrive things. Beaker doing a bunch of work to move more things into userland. Adding hypercore API, network services API. Moving things like the editor and files explorer into userland. Pushing to get nice opinions out of the box, but as little hardcoded as possible.
- cblgh: Moz grant (8 weeks) just wrapped (subject moderation focus). All works! And implemented in desktop, cli, and the client lib. Looking for another grant. One grant focused on getting cabal into the browser. If that doesn't happen, waiting to see what's next. Probably working on documentation and ease of entry. Personally- finishing up a blogpost on trust-based moderation (cblgh's thesis) which should release this week along with the thesis.
- Diego: Made a lot of progress integrating the hyperdrive daemon fuse-side into the p2p commons sdk. There's a branch that's working well, next thing to integrate into one of the top-level applications (cli app) to make sure all working. Lately been digging around how to test FUSE using containers. Tricky because FUSE in containers requires extra privileges.
- Franz: Working on some patches to multifeed to make it compat with corestore-based hypercore storage and corestore-swarm-networker. Still some work to do. Allows to mount multifeed extensions which will mean kappa-core based apps (cabal, sonar) can use the dat-sdk and can work as userland modules on top of the new hyperspace daemon. Should enable multiple userland daemons/apps sharing the same corestore storage. Links to PRs: [(1)](https://github.com/kappa-db/multifeed/pull/45), [(2)](https://github.com/Frando/multifeed/pull/1) Still working on sonar, going well, soon starting a UX project with Simply Secure. Likely will have some funding for a rust port of hypercore protocol, ~50k.
- Martin: worked on sodium-javascript, should be out this week. Need a tests system in React Native, working on that now. Political discussion ongoing with Webpack and node community about dependencies, so created a tape fork called "fresh tape" to remove deps. Presenting this week to Ledger. This weeks event is from LEDGER: https://www.blumorpho.com/impact-week-pitch-viewing-2.html  This is "fresh-tape" that works with react-native: https://github.com/martinheidegger/fresh-tape Here is the reason for this: https://github.com/nodejs/readable-stream/pull/435#issuecomment-647869677

### Serapath removed from mailing list

- Paul: There was a lot of stuff talking about branding and what to do, emails got very heated. At one point karissa was feeling hurt by ways that serapath was talking, especially towards her. Serapath was blocked from the mailing list at that point. After we discussed it, went back and asked to have it reversed. When it happened, I talked to serapath 1 on 1 about behavior and how to engage more productively, he was receptive to that and demonstrated an interest. Wanted to give a +1 to getting him back. It's a topic we haven't talked about but we should talk about standards for dealing with behavior, we had an informal way and it'd be good to formalize it so that when actions are taken so we can know about it. Serapath is back on the mailing list. Wanted to make it clear that I personally appreciated that he listened and think it would be great to have him back and hope there are no hard feelings about it.
- cblgh: Thanks for dealing with it Paul, it was a delicate situation
- Paul: I appreciate that
- All: Thanks

### Updates on the dat event

- Franz: Starting with the finance part. Martin will do the organizational part. Been emailing a lot with CS&S, mostly with Joe. Initially- at some point with the consortium we agreed to take up to $2000 from the fund for event-related expenses, was writing with Joe to do that, first response was that they decided until the dat foundation governance situation is settled in some way, that the funds would be frozen because they say that with an accepted governance model they can't take the responsibility of accepting invoices for these funds. Then it turned out (and it's great that they'll do this) they will release the funds to the event. The event wg (me, diego, martin) will occur over an open collective so that all the expenses are together and then we can pay individuals through that. We proposed that we would submit through the Dat open collective, however Joe says it has to be all to one legal entity or individual and wont deal with multiple invoices. So what we'll need is some entity (some person or company) that will act as a broken for this small budget. I think we can also think about this again in the event group, or if somebody has an easy suggestion, that would also be good. Still a question about how the remainder of the foundation funds will be accessed, which is something we'll defer to next week, but that's unrelated to the question of how the event will operate.
- Ranger: Perhaps we could reach out to  bits.coop or digidem or something and funnel it through them? Does it have to be a non-profit? A US company?
- Franz: Anything should be fine. It should just be one invoice, so it could be a company also. There might be taxes for a company to deal with.
- Martin: If I understood the situation correctly, the problem as I understand it is that the NPO, CS&S, is in charge of the IP called "Dat" and as part of this the funding. If a group of unofficial people takes this name and creates a conference, with the approval of karissa and maf, who are the directors, then communicate that we're not in a direct relation to Dat foundation, the problem is without a steering committee there's not a way for us to legitimize our actions. We need a process for decisions. The problem without a steering committee creates effort at CS&S which they don't want to roll down the hill to them. Same with the newsletter. I've read this in the mailing list, and I've not read something that's opposite to this. If the IP and the money are taken care of, they can't just hand it to a corporate entity, it needs to go to another entity. It seems the simplest way would be to setup the steering committee.
- Paul: With open collective, there are some NPOs that are available which they can help us get in touch with to take that role. That's why it's a possibility. Last looked there were a couple with requirements on stuff like stars on GH. Couple of things: Also had a cal with Danielle to wrap my head around things with CS&S, mostly heard the same. Two observations: the reason the comittee is important is there's no governence at all at the moment, karissa and mathias are informally directors, thats why it's important to set something up. THey have mmore sway but the idea is to hand it off. SOmething else, the funds need to be related to Dat specifically, not comfortable with anything that isn't specifically Dat. So, finding an org for the event money, need to find out exactly how that would operate, if it doesn't have Dat in the name it might be a problem. With that said, I'd volunteer that Beaker has an Open Collective, would volunteer that as a way to funnel money through. Not entirely sure if that's an option. Would we need an open collective that has Dat Consortium in the name?
- Martin: Shouldn't be an issue for the 2k, we can't really do fundraising due to absense of steering comitte and directors. The timing is unfortunate.
- Frando: Wanted to say that 2k, any open collective would be okay. They just need a legal entity, that people from the cosnortium look over that. For that I would think the best would be to create a new open collective and have agreement with CS&S, have some sort of name like "Dat community collective", not dat foundation. THen we need to agree on some board for that and stuff around it. SOmething we can do later. For the event the Beaker Open Collective could be good to deal with the maybe 5 invoices. Maybe Paul, you could mention the open collective could be used for more donations should they occur?
- Paul: Just wanted to say that if we do go that down path and somebody does donate we need to know that that's what they're donating for (not just Beaker).
- Martin: Don't need to talka bout it for the 2k. Other things for the Event. This has been blocking us, we started to prepare emails and wanted to thave more comm comms. THink about can we keep the naming, haven't been that active in that sense. Did look around scheduling and other events. JS Summit and Dweb Camp, they used sched.com for meeting and event scheduling. it's pretty expensive (500$) doesn't support timezones properly, if you want it cheaper need an NPO which needs the steering comittee. Now considering 2 other options. Something to sign up ourselves with HTML and Excel sheets. Testing out to use [pretalx](https://pretalx.com/p/about/) it's actually for CFPs, but also comes with scheduling tools, you can schedule a talk where the proposals are submitted and you can schedule the talk and get an OK for the time slot. You can get a .ico for this and other info. Seems useful, is open source, but customization requires a bit of python. Only set up part way. Got a few more presentations since last time we talked. Announced to funding partner. Conference was announced today at the dweb conf event

### Vision

- Ranger: We're 10 minutes left, do we want to get into this today or punt?
- Martin: Can I be brazen and ask for a proposal. Could we think of establishing a transitionary government so while we're in this process of finding how to get the thing going, we would have a system that could handle tasks. Perhaps 3 months until we have a government or are dead. In these 3 months, they can get the operations quickly decided, because every weeks is too slow for the event.
- Ranger: I think that would be a cool idea. I dont feel comfortable going with it with the few # on the call, but perhaps propose that on the mailing list and then people can elect others to that role, and then others accepting that. With the # we have now, it feels weird making that decision.
- Martin: I'd be okay with a mailing list, if we can decide on the language, ask for some +1s and basic voting of 3 people.
- Ranger: I'm into that, Franz is +1, is anyone against that?
- Franz: I wanted to add that I think would be good to ahve some discussion also about the relationship of --- *his connection failed so moved to chat* --- the board to the wider consortium. So eg to agree that major discussions happens in the consortium, to not get into a closed door mentality too much, but have a board for accountability toward buerocracy and for having short term decision power if needed
- Mauve: Who'd like to send initial email, I'll do it

### Newsletter List

- Martin: We should port to a different system
- Mauve: Is this a next two weeks thing?
- Martin: yes
- Paul: Is this the consortium or mailing list? DO we want another system?
- Martin: joe said we can have the addresses, but we can't use their mailing list system, it's paid by CS&S.
- Paul: we might want to find out if we don't have a steering comittee. Worried about loosing existing subs
- Martin: We'll get the list, no worry about losing.

### Next facilitator

- Martin I can do it, Diego could be my fallback? :+1:
- cblgh will faciltate the meeting after the next (pending any schedule collisions, feel free to remind him tho :^)

## Next Action Items:

- Figure out the funds for next time
    - Purpose of org for getting funds (dat specific?)
- Mauve: Send email about setting up board. Include newsletter list in email summary
- Martin Facilitates NExt time

