# Dat Consortium Meeting 12

Wed 2020-04-01, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants

- cblgh (alex)
- rangermauve
- kevin faaborg
- martin heidegger
- mafintosh
- jessica hardwicke
- sam macbeth (note-taking)


## Action Item Review:

- Martin has poked the members of the online event working group to get it started
- Create (public facing) group for the online event
- coordinate interest of dat advisory committee on the mailing list
- karissa facilitates the next meeting

## Agenda

- Check in / updates
- Ask Jessica about dat advisory committee stuff
- Review Previous Action Items
- ???

## Future Action Items
- Revisit the event.
- Revisit advisory commitee at the next meeting

## Meeting Notes
### Check-ins
Mauve: Welcome to 2nd official pandemic meeting! Updates?

Sam: Not much dat related, keeping an eye on hyperswarm changes in the CLI, thinking aobut how to keep compat in cliqz

Paul: User testing, now in closed beta, doing video calls for feedback. Going well, mostly bug fixing and performance work.

Mauve: How many people testing?

Paul: 7 onboarded, 4 active.

Mathias: Performance work, latency down, performance up. Ongoing work.

Martin: Dat comm comm in 20 hours. Last week had discussions about Rust and Dat pinning. You can follow these online. Had a Dat event group meeting. Starting React-native Dat with Mathias.

Kevin: Working on ara.one. Soon people outside of US can buy tokens on latoken. Doing a random walk through static blog generators, and how to get hugo, hexo and jekyll sites on Beaker.

Jessica: Signup up for earth day eco challenge. Exited about it. Working with CSV conference to transition to a virtual conference. Also working with Seattle org moving to online classes. Ready for questions about advisory commitee.

cblgh: Lot happened in Cabal. Replaced discovery-swarm with hyperswarm in cabel-core and evaluating it. Working on surprise for past contributors, giving a physical thing. Putting together grant app for adding moderation in cabal's clients. Continuing work on Thesis: Trust system for community management, 60 pages!

Andrew: Working on perf and daemon CLI revamp. End to end testing in beaker.

Mauve: Update from dat-dot project with Nina and Alex: Demo working publisher sent to fake blockchain which prevents hosters from cheating. Also made [dat-fetch](https://github.com/RangerMauve/dat-fetch), like fetch but using dat-sdk (hyperdrive + hyperswarm). Used to test fetching hyperdrive10 archives without having to install hyperdrive-daemon. Initial prototype of data sharing application over local network using hyperdrive. Helping organise our-networks 2020 which will be virtual conference. Discussing with other conferences how to do virtual.

### Agenda
Start with agenda: Last week talked about pushing Code for science and society advisory committee. Joe sent update on finance info to Jessica

Jessica: Got a balance sheet. This is where advisory committee would come in handy, not sure if this should be shared with entire consortium?

Mauve: Should be ok to share with entire consortium. This is to help us get an idea if we want the committee.

Jessica: Ok. Does not include Moz or 2018 grants. 30k remaining in general fund for Dat. He said he wanted to make sure Karissa reviews before being share futher. I can check with Karissa and she can forward to consortium.

Mauve: That works. Let time people were interested in advisory commitee stuff. Any questions?

Martin: One of the requirements to join was to sent a CV. How should it look like, what should be on it?

Jessica: Was that on one of the links I sent? We don't require a CV. Bare minimum we require contact info for the commitee. CV would be optional, nice to have a biography. Idea is to encourage groups to have a bio on their commitee members.

Martin: Thank you

Alex: Curious about time committment from other projects?

Jessica: On our projects the committees vary greatly. One project works through a University - they hardly ever meet, high up academics. Technically committee has to prove things. Another example: startup with 4 people, they meet once a month. CS&S trying to improve docs, but don't have explicit requirements on how often they should meet.

Mauve: No more questions. Is anyone interesting in following up with people interested in applying to committee? Should that be done?

Alex: Sent me Diego's email and I can send out an email to all interested.

Mauve: Thanks everyone and Jessica, go to next agenda item: Review previous action items. Martin summarise event work.

Martin: We had a meeting of 4 members with [meeting notes](https://hackmd.io/gjeZbjQSRtueuqbNcRLGug). We are organising on github public-events repo. Had a conversation with dweb team + Kevin. Now that Our Networks has published CFP we can think about timeline. Karissa is working on CFP for our event, out-of-band communication with her on that. Franz will look at technical things. I am looking for organisations interested in helping. Contacted friends who may be able to do a homepage. Also dat community members. Haven't set an event date yet. Looking at the Our Networks CFP they have loose event date, so does dweb event. Makes planning a bit hard. Personally not sure, looking for advice on facilitation.

Mauve: I guess we'll have an update for the next meeting. Nothing else on the agenda, any other things that should be discussed?
Sam: Do we need to think about budget alloocation?
Martin: Not sure what costs we will have. Pending on technical eval of the tools we want to use. If we want to delegate the work of creating the home page. Might need some budget. Last meeting Karissa OK'd using osme of the foundation funding for the event, aslo thinking of working with companeis in the dat sphere to sponsor it if we need money.

Mauve: Sam if you're interesting in more I can cc on the next dat events call.
Last call for other agenda items.

Martin: For the dat event, it would be nice to have a feeling from the group what they would love to happen, or not like. Just to get a general feeling of what is ok and not ok.

Mauve: Maybe Martin can start.

Martin: We discussed. Not ok with asking attendees for money. Another thing, should be community first or talk first. We want community first, we do not give an agenda in terms of topic, rather in terms of people. Personally would love to see interactive things. Some would like a technical event, but would also like some group building.

Andrew: No points on not see. Would like to see interactive technical demos, also good talks. Been a while since there's been group talks.

Alex: I like talks. Also communal spaces, posting about the talk e.g. cabal, irc. Would be cool to dog-food dat tech, but may exclude people. Maybe they go though what they built.

Kevin: Basically what everyone else said. Demos at technical and product level. How to get people to use the stuff.

Mathias: Demos good. Good to catch up with people. Get a lot of people + new people to speak. Focus on adoption and get people from the outside into the community. Focus on widing the community.

Paul: All sounds good to me.

Sam: Yeah, it all sounds reasonable, I didn't have time to think but sounds good


Mauve: Hopefully that helps us figure stuff out for the event.

Martin: For Paul: should we plan the event around a beaker release?

Paul: When did we last talk about the event happening? I want to say that we're at the finish sprint on the close beta. Public beta by the end of next month. Mid-June for public beta? That would be a suitable point to react. Does seem feasible to talk about new beta at the event.

Martin: Having a new browser would kick things off - we would have things to talk about.

Mauve: Anything else?

Kevin: Also looking forward to the new version. Good for demos - make a new site with the new beaker.

Paul: That would be great.

Mauve: Agenda items: Revisit the event. Revisit advisory commitee at the next meeting. Anything else to add?
Thanks for coming out, hopefully see you at the next one.