# Dat Consortium Meeting 25


Wed 2020-10-14, 6pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=6pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants

- Paul Frazee
- Martin Heidegger
- Ranger Mauve
- J Werle
- Nina
- Alex

## Action item review

## Agenda items

- Hypercore protocol
- Sodium-Universal
- continue with [Dat consortium manifesto](https://hackmd.io/N2dFrSfxQbSP1nD94WC6RA?both)

## Manifesto

We will

## Hypercore protocol convo

Mau: Wanted to identify what kind of datastructure a hyperdrive is, and the header wasn't recording that information anymore.
Pfr: Is it
Mau: What we figured out with Mathias and Andrew was that we would use some subtype field. I wondered if we can get it standardized
in the HYP process.
Pfr: Is type & subtype enough for us? Is Hyperdrive enough for us? Do we need to do that in for other things?
Mau: With Mathias in Github issues Hyperdrive would be enough for us. If we need it more fancy we could put it in an array of subtypes.
I would like to make sure its specific and I would like to
Pfr: Adding an action item.
Mau: Hyperbee is already using subtype headers but not documented. It would be good to remove those hacky things.
     Do you think anyone from the core-team for how to get the HYP reviewed and merged?
Pfr: Yeah, I think we can get someone look at this and we can get an agenda item for that as well. Upstream to core and Mathias gives +1 and we do it.

## Sodium-Universal use

Mar: So I have this issue [#4](https://github.com/sodium-friends/sodium-universal/issues/4) and there is no answer on this yet. What would you recommend me to do if I want to get attention to this?
Mau: I am just pinging Emil, Mathias until I get an reply.
Mau: We have worked on [rntape](https://github.com/consento-org/rn-tape) to run tape tests.

## Discord Group move to channel

Pfr: We should be moving from the group chat to a private
Pfr: I would have it either way.
Kar: Coming in late: I have already many discord icons and would prefer to have
Mau: I think it might be good to ask who actually wants to use this channel, I don't think that many people are actively using discord other than talking about hypercore protocol. Alex mentioned it would be cool there would be an hypercore channel for ara, datdot, etc... I feel it would be good to know what people would use.
Nin: Why did you not put Agregore under hypercore-protol?
Mau: Because I wanted my own community: I didnt want to impose people to it.
Kar: We also have our own channel for digidem.
Pfr: It seems this is somehow connected to what we want to be and maybe we stick to what we have now and use it.

_Moving to manifesto_

## Discussion about manifesto.

Pfr: We were working on [this](https://hackmd.io/N2dFrSfxQbSP1nD94WC6RA?both) last time. We were debating the goals and the membership of it. And what we could do and look at the different views and draw conclusions. Are there any disagreements in the current document?
Mau: I think the CLI is missing on this list. Should it be part of this list or is the CLI just a separate project which needs to figure it out by itself.
Kar: Having the CLI here is important because if this Committee is organizing funds, the Dat CLI was in large part an open-collective what people have been donating to. It would be very confusing because "dat" is the command line tools name.
Nin: Maybe we could have a sibling point here: Funding & Maintaining common infrastructure.
Pfr: Having the dat cli in this consortium's would be the first project under the consortiums should be part of the goals of the consortium. Which really opens the conversation on what the future for the command line is going to be. We could make that as an action item to take it on as role.
Pfr: Broadly speaking the consortium should be supporting it but then there is this kind of support where the consortium is managing. Making an event is practially like a code project. And we could be putting that into working groups.
Mau: I really like that you brought up the events. We trusted the working group from the dat event to figure it out and they could get it done. I think that workflow was kinda nice and codifying what we did there could work for other tasks too.
Kar: Agreed. I wonder how all this works: removing the CLI - ip wise - legally.
Pfr: Personally, figuring out the fate of the CLI is part of that.
Mau: The CLI shouldn't be the primary focus but stewardship should probably be that, I don't think we can abandon it, if we are using the resources from Open collective and all that, but I am OK with it not being the primary focus of the collective. It would be useful to get it up and running again. I am running into at least two other.
Nin: We have a list of "legal questions" at the end of the document and I added an action item for this too.
Ale: The question that we are having is one step too far: We should focus first on membership and goal setting and things, then we can decide the DAT CLI is maybe too early. How do we deal with Open Collective and that and postpone dat CLI etc.
Pfr: That is what I tried to propose. I am there.
Mar: If someone wants to have a question on the dat CLI they can put it as an agenda item on future
Pfr: Is it important that this is addressed now?
Kar: If you just include "management of IP" as task for the consortium it should be enough. We don't have to specify what that is.
Pfr: We can move on.
Mau: Updates from Danielle: Alissa from Open Source Collective, and Danielle talked to Joe and they talk to lawyers. The transfer agreement that they need to draw up. That is where that is at. Maybe I can try pingin it more often.
Ale: I am confused about the transfer of IP to Open collective, I thought its not possible to transfer this?
Mau: The was no problem with this in the communication I had.
Pfr: We should have the role of the org, at least. We should talk what things need to be done. Is it an open membership sort-of-thing, where evenone can join at any time, or is it an invite only system with roles over time. HAve a hard cut-off
Mar: Can we have a working-group for this that can meet more often.
Mau: We have a working group with Diego and Kevin.
Pfr: I don't mind.
Nin: I also feel that we need to move faster, but working groups may be faster. Maybe we can work online on this, and during two weeks. In this one hour we barely.
Mar: Ale, could you set this up?
Ale: Yes, can do that until next time.
Pfr: In the server/channel created for this we can have a channel/working group for this.

Mar: I can take care of the next meeting.

## Action items

- Start an HYP to get hyperdrives and hyperbees using the subtype header
- Setup and document some kind of HYP process
- Create dat consortium discord server
- Setup a WG for finishing the manifesto
