# Dat Consortium Meeting 33


**2021-Mar-03 Wed**
10am San Francisco;
1pm New York;
6pm London;
7pm Berlin
[timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=<YYYYMMDDTHH>&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
* [@pfrazee](https://twitter.com/pfrazee) (Facilitator)
* [martinheidegger](https://github.com/martinheidegger)
* franz
* mauve
* kevin
* diego
* nina

## Action items (from last time)
1. [x] @martin to send [manifesto] to mailinglist
2. [ ] @frando and/or mauve contact alicia from Open Collective about:
   1. [ ] how to move from DAT Open Collective to a new DAT ECOSYSTEM Open Collective
   2. [ ] CC: nina, alex, pfrazee, kevin in email thread)
   * *franz* we didn't get to sending out the mails. i just wrote a proposal, maybe we talk about it quickly and then we can send it out. [draft for emails](https://hackmd.io/HzLnkL6FSR-wmr3eWWvHaQ)
3. [ ] @kevin reply to joe hand and mentions the ongoing work on (dat rust, cli, deamon) worked on by different consortium members) and ask:
   1. [ ] the exact amount of financial resources belonging to DAT (on CS&S bank account apart from $4,602.99, which is on Open Collective)?
   2. [ ] the exact requirements/laws/contracts that define to whom they can transfer IP & financial resources (e.g. can it be a 501c3 equivalent in Europe? what do resources need to be spent for (for example DAT cli))

## Status updates

Martin: Sideproject going well. Not related with hypercore stuff. Apply to some grants for consento project, sadly they were rejected. Still looking for funding ideas.

Kevin: Ara just setup the Uniswap liquidity pool and allows us to exchange tokens to USD/EUR and we have a few people that have swapped establishing market value. Little Star Media Inc.'s latest thing that we are going to be working on NFT's. Gonna setup a CTZN server soon.

Franz: Managing different projects recently. Hacking on hypercore proto in rust. Managed to compile in wasm and make it work in the browser. Higher level things are missing but its a nice experiment. Working on sonar from time-to-time.

Mauve: Updated the consento groups to use hypercores for replicating. Demo maybe next week. Natakanu will have phase 2, Digital Northwest Territories collaboration with mesh frameworks may be possible. Looking into making Agregore the base for next Natakanu version. Making progress on earthstar in agregore.

Nina: Continuing to rewire/fix our app using x-state-machines. Experimenting with new workflow. We got a grant from the Battery Foundation and they pay by milestone: So little money for a lot of work.

Diego: We are working on audio-platform project. Some demo's last week and were able to gather some metrics and hopefully in the next couple of days we may have some public demo's.

Paul: Launch the alpha of ctzn. The stack seems to be working but ~100people are online and I am going to keep hacking.

## Notes

Martin: Manifest shared with mailing list.

Franz: We didn't send out the mail yet and prepared a draft but its not sent out yet.

Kevin: Yes, it needs to be a 501,3c.

## Manifesto

Martin: following conversations we have last time, change some points. Need some feedback. There is one point that we are stuck with. Alex (serapath) made some comments, like there is not a clear distinction from this group and any other blockchain group. Needs a reprhasing.
Mauve: some projects are using blockchain. Saying we are not blockchain its not 100 real.
Paul: dont know if blockchain mention is a problem. Hypercore itself is not going to be a blockchain.
Martin: hypercore is a chain of blocks. question with the prhasing: who is it for? for the general public? is it too vague? do we need to be more specific? organizations, individuals, etc...
Nina: what would be the goal?
Paul: what is the motive talking about blockchains and things like that?
Alex: hypercore focus on empower individuals. I feel like general public, remains like society as whole or goverment, its like we miss the individuals. Its like there is a diff with hypercore with the message, like using hypercore empowers the individual more.
Martin: maybe we need to iterate more on this point. Id like to hear more about what other people in this group thinks about this.
Mauve: personally dont care about blockchains in the manifesto.
Nina: strong identity missing on what is hypercore. Like big goal.
Paul: its like a data mesh. its all about repliclating data.
Nina: data for sure. What is the real differentiator, thinking about someone who is not in this space, some outsider.
Alex: not all projects are blockchain based. What all the projects have in common.
Martin: we can have this discussion in the manifesto docs and/or discord channel.
franz: is this a blocker on the manifesto?
Martin: it is a blocker.
Mauve: dont think this should be a blocker.
Martin: as long as somebody doesnt feel comfortably with the doc, i'm going to spent some time on it.
alex: maybe its worth to delay a bit to explore more this topic about identity
franz: from my POV I'd like to reach agreement and closure with the CS&S and move forward with the new consortium. It will be ok to continue with the discussion, but my preference would be to avoid the block.
mauve: also exhausted. Id like to see some progress.
martin: alex needs to be ok with this.
franz: can we use the manifesto doc? needed for the cs&s
alex: we can
martin: i think the manifesto is practically there. there is only one line that can be modified slightly.
kevin: manifesto is pretty good. we can think about ship it.
nina: just a reflection about being exhausted. we all have different personalities in how we approach problems, challenges.
paul: lets give it two weeks, and go ahead with the final version after our next meeting.
franz: would like to send the draft ASAP.
Franz: i can send the emails, but would like at least two reviews/feedback.


Nina: what is the cause for the unclear answers?

kevin: At this point they need to talk to lawyers for other cases, other cases they may not know.

franz: they don't want to offer money now that they can follow through with. We will see.

paul: can franz send it.

franz: anyone can do it.

paul: can someone run point?

diego: I can read over it.

franz: the email is in one of the past notes.

Kevin: I think we can & it would be good to get the money in the open collective and do at least some event. and Joe didn't say _no_ to the other money but it would need to be accessed through grants. Additionally I should mention i _do_ have a 501,3c that isn't doing anything and we could be using it.

Paul: Interesting information there.

## Agenda Items
1. [ ] finish manifesto + ask everyone again to accept it
   * https://hackmd.io/XAfk8Q5NQJiCHYpB5vjZow
2. [ ] How much do we care about the CS&S financial resources? We have TWO exclusive options:
   1. not open a 501c3 or equivalent + giving up on the money
   2. opening a 501c3 or equivalent + getting the money to pay people like e.g.  (frando, mauve) to work on (e.g. hyper rust, hyper fetch)
4. [ ] Think about what the new name will be ("Dat Ecosystem"? Other?)
5. [ ] ...

## Next facilitator: Martin :tada:
