# Dat Consortium Meeting 43


**2021-07-21**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210721T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants

## Agenda Items

- Updates
- [Grant from CS&S](https://hackmd.io/d8hgmONGQ3i7bpMXtjaOUg)
    - Dat-Ecosystem: Think about a higher set of goals (**mission**). This is going to be part of the grant proposal. Nothing too big neither, 1 or 2 paragraphs that will be at the begginning of the doc. It can also be part of the website too.
- hypernix project asks for their own dat-ecosystem discord channel
    * discord: @nixinator (on: dat-ecosystem server, hypercore server)
    * project goals:
      1. package hyperspace cli as a nix package
      2. enable to seed the entire nixos package registry via hyper

## Updates

Serapath: staying in Wales for a month in a hackerspace and introducing hypercore protocol to people there. Some got very excited and started building some solutions on hypercore on Nix. Otherwise Datdot and grant team for Dat ecosystem.

Mauve: Finishing ipfs grant and working on updates on Agregore. Did presentation on Browsers 3000 event. Applied for funding for mobile Agregore.

Paul: Analysing DB aproach on hypercore protocol. 2 ideas for the future: personal cloud (Sandstorm like) or DB in the citizen to be a packaged DB as a module.

Nina: Datdot work on Hyperswarm logic + grant

Kevin: Finally finished the whole setup for liquidity of Ara token.




## Notes


### Grant

Serapath: Together with Diego and Nina we were working on the grant proposal. https://hackmd.io/d8hgmONGQ3i7bpMXtjaOUg

We had a call with Danielle from CS&S and they like the proposal and are looking forward to see this coming to life. So they confirm the idea of transition from old Dat stuff to Dat ecosystem as a garden to grow Hypercore/p2p interoperable projects.

She said we should also think of the old Dat mission of open data and try to integrate it in our new vision. Then, to add more concrete tasks to the proposal. And also, perfectly we could finish this whole grant until December, if not, then latest next June.

On Friday grant team meets again and will try to do more concrete tasks, timeline and budget for each task.

TODO: check how Redecentralize is doing regular updates through Newsletter/weekly or monthly digest: https://redecentralize.org/blog/

---

### New members

Telios and Hyper Nix => should provide video summary of the project + link to the website and then we can revew and vote to accept them to Discord and list their project there and on the website.



## Action Items

- Grant team continues
- share links to good p2p/decentralized newsletter, media, communities for inspiration

## Next Facilitator:

Paul




