# Dat Consortium Meeting 32


**2021-Feb-17 Wed**
10am San Francisco;
1pm New York;
6pm London;
7pm Berlin
[timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=<YYYYMMDDTHH>&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
* [@ninabreznik](https://twitter.com/ninabreznik) (Facilitator)
* pfrazee
* martin
* mauve
* serapath
* frando

## Agenda Items

0. [x] intro/updates/notes-taking
2. [x] Update the dat twitter visual logos (pfrazee)
3. [x] Use signal to share dat twitter creds (share #s via discord later)
4. [x] [manifesto](https://hackmd.io/XAfk8Q5NQJiCHYpB5vjZow) (everyone signed? what's next?)
5. [x] Try to get a reply from CS&S
6. ~~[ ] Think about what the new name will be ("Dat Ecosystem"? Other?)~~
  * move item to next meeting

## Action items (until next agenda)
* [ ] martin to send manifesto to mailinglist
* [ ] frando and/or mauve contact alicia from Open Collective about:
  1. [ ] how to move from DAT Open Collective to a new DAT ECOSYSTEM Open Collective
  2. [ ] CC: nina, alex, pfrazee, kevin in email thread)
* [ ] kevin reply to joe hand and ask how much non open-colective financial resources belong to DAT and what are the "restrictions"?


## Meeting Notes

@serapath
* worked a bit on dat-ecosystem module scraping and visualization
* worked on datdot project management for our team of ~4 people

@frando
* works on dat rust again (did a live stream recently)
  * it can sync hypercores now
  * not yet complete interoperability (because of lack of UTP)
* also quite busy with non-dat stuff

@martin
* busy with a non-dat side project at the moment
* worked a bit on the manifesto

@mauve
* added typescript support to hyper-sdk (to make tests pass)
* will do a bit of natakanu stuff this year
* reaching out to mesh net folks to try to use natakanu
* made some progress on hyperbee/pouchdb in the browser
  * try to integrate with (ashen?) app
* working on integrating earth star into agregore
  * ping-ponging with cinnamon-bun
* digital democracy cloud sync thing + bring them close to raw hypercore

@pfrazee
* testnet saturday for CTZN network was a great success
  * discovered some server sync issues and resolved them
  * remote community was able to join
* working on infrastructure and tooling
  * hope that helps with debugging
* CTZN uses hyperbees as databases
  * bad network caused hypberbee reads to block
  * expected: read from the local cache

@nina
* xstate machines to capture all edge cases of the "business logic"


## 3.
everyone joins the consortium signal chat to share e.g. credentials

## 4.
* check https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/Code-of-Conduct fork from "datproject"
  * as a code of conduct to include in the manifesto
* ask everyone to sign it

## 5.
* read mail from Joe Hand:

### Mail from Joe Hand

Hi Kevin and all, thanks for your patience. Regarding any websites, etc. - I wrote up this list as I was working to hand off stuff (06/2019); so it is outdated but may give you a sense of what there is. On your questions:

    -I understand the difficulty in transferring the domains because the infrastructure was set up at the same time. We have been talking about how we would transfer materials to a new domain. But is this also true: Even if the infrastructure was easy to separate, to be able to transfer the domain, we'd need a Dat nonprofit entity (a US-based 501c3) for CS&S to transfer the domains to?


Correct. We cannot freely transfer any assets to an entity that isn't a public charity (501c3) that may lead to private benefit.


    -How much money does Dat have? Anecdotally, I've heard people mention numbers in the US$2000-5000 range and also around US$35,000.


This relates to the question above. We can transfer the balance in the OpenCollective ($4,602.99) to another collective, assuming it is used for the same general purpose because that money is unrestricted for Dat. Any other remaining funds for Dat has some restrictions on it and to spend it we'd likely have to contract out for specific projects that are in line with those restrictions.

Best,

Joe Hand | he/him
Director of Operations
Code for Science & Society


* consider whether we should ask for the restrictions to figure out if there is a way of fullfilling those

@frando
* maybe we should open a new open collective to transfer funds there
  * because the current Open Collective is tied to CS&S
  * and ask sponsors to support the new open collective

@frando
* propose a follow up mail to joe hand
  * e.g. link to the manifesto and the +1's

