# Dat Consortium Meeting 35

**2021-03-31**

[timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210331T10&p1=224&ah=1)


## Participants
- mauve
- martin
- paul
- diego
- kevin
- nina

## Agenda:

- Updates
- Manifesto updates (Martin)
- OC Migration Results (Mauve)
- DAT-DNS in beaker/agregore (Martin)
- Documenting all things Dat Ecosystem
- Next steps

## Notes

- Personal Updates
    - Martin: manifest is done!
      - https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/blob/main/MANIFESTO.md
      - https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/blob/main/code-of-conduct-contact.md
      - https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md
      - https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/pull/4
      - https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/pull/1
      + Code of Conduct
      + CoC Reporting Guide
      + original: https://hackmd.io/XAfk8Q5NQJiCHYpB5vjZow
      - Looking for getting some hyper-dns up and running. Talking with tradle about using hypercore there. also getting some updates from alex and nina.
    - Diego: We are still working on a Geut internal project, hope to have first demo next weekend. Planning lots of changes for the UX.
    - Kevin: exciting week for ARA. ARA token is doing quite well recently. eths coming into the pool (uniswap) from community members. NFT related project coming out in april (managed by littlstar) :tada:
    - Nina: Pushing things forward! Done with the state machines logic. Refactoring and adding some changes and testing things. Doing daily summaries inspired by paul livestreams!
    - Paul: Spent time thinking about the items tokens system. Finally wrapped up that. Beta in April (CTZN). cross-server sync challenges in the wild. TRacking down bugs. All in all everything is working quite well. After beta release, transition to 50% of my time coordinating with people in docs, passing some knowledge, helping foster the community around.
    - serapath: still working on datdot. back and forth with fiona (who is in charge of the UI/product development). Working on make the code more readable, hard to keep track of all the edge cases. We were using xstate, its working better than expected. But we want transition into our own state logic (with the current system is hard to recover from crashes).
    - mauve: working on project ushen(?). webpack issues (outdated buffer version). wrestling with webpack :sweat_smile: Progress with consento. Showcase how to add metadata to a consento group and add/remove writers in the process. 2nd phase of natakanu this year, we will using agregore instead of custom electron app. Started sketching together a bittorrent-like interface for aggregore (fetch like interface for bittorrent).

- Manifesto Update
    - Martin: signed by everyone, its published and done![Manifesto](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/blob/main/MANIFESTO.md) :rocket: Would be nice to communicate publicly this meetings and things like that. We also have a voting system specified.
    - Nina: Should we write about it? Announce what we are working on
    - martin: lots of things could be improved. everyone can jump and do something
- OC migration results
    - mauve: sent email today! Sent email with joe and danielle asking its there anything to do next with the migration?. Waiting for replies.
    - martin: thanks for this. delays are a bit painful. If you feel you need any help you can ping me.
    - serapath: who are the OSF folks? FSF folks? [see action item]

- DAT DNS
    - martin: related to fixing with publication of web3 presence (websites and such). As a consequence give it a look to dat-dns. Made some PRs. Spent some time trying to re-write the whole thing. The thing that I notice in a convo with paul, should we really add well known domains?. Maybe we can gather a common picture of how this should work.
    - paul: well-known files is OK. I can deal with it.
    - martin: would you like to know more about this?
    - paul: yes, sure
    - martin: WIP https://github.com/martinheidegger/hyper-dns
        - its an update to dat-dns
        - ES6 compat
        - caching and non-cache mechanism (interesting for the browser)
        - 30kb
        - supports abort signals, cancellation.
        - supports timeout and things
        - better testing, almost 100% coverage
        - added some methods to caching
        - what i want to add is a CLI and a new cache (can improve expiration dates, old has a live internal that you can not control)
        - add `hyper-dns` file, where we cache dns settings
        - url lookup
        - lots of ideas! Looking for feedback/discussion
        - decentralized urls? hyper-dns lookup? what the cabal link is, what the ipfs link is, what the dat link is? <- metadata
        - we may suggest it to ipfs people
    - mauve: have you considered contacting protocol labs for some funding?
    - mauve: are you interested in make a PR into hyper-sdk for integration?
    - mauve: about protocol labs, talk to contact. I want to do this, put some informal proposal together. Deliverables, cost, estimates. Once is implemented you can collect the grant.
    - martin: want to reach the point it can handle different protocols.
    - martin: I'll appreciate an intro. :+1:
    - mauve: any other comments in dns stuff?
    - paul: sounds good to me.

- Documenting all things Dat Ecosystem
    - martin: in the process of adding dat-dns I set up a netlify server using my own personal account. Set up cloudflare. Would like to document all this things. This may release some pressure if other people is aware. There was some discussion using cryptpad or even some private instance. Generally speaking to get things done we need some resources. Without having the org in place is hard to do things sometimes ($).
    - mauve: could we wait until OC migration? Or go ahead and track some expenses now and reimburse later
    - martin: that works but I can not invite anyone to help. because that means switching to team account (more $$). WHere can we track this things?
    - nina: everything on github for now. maybe later switch to some hyper thing. it would be nice to be super minimalistic about this (like the approach for moving things)
    - mauve: response to what nina says
    - martin: agree to make things simple. maybe github wiki. As far about dogfooding, we can wait a bit maybe. If somebody develops a solution its fine. Other than that adds pressure.
    - serapath: agree. maybe we can link to others projects docs.
    - martin: my point was exclusively related to org docs.
    - nina: wiki, who is it for?
    - martin: for us.
    - serapath: just an md in some repo would be fine for me.
    - mauve: objections?
    - all good :+1:
    - nina: for now I would avoid anything paid (for passwords storage).
    - mauve: we can continue this conversation on discord.
    - martin: will open an issue with this


- Next steps!
    - martin: looking for to dat-dns and tradle work
    - diego: Have a good demo for the product and keep working on it
    - kevin: figure it out what token success means for the project
    - nina: clean some code and start populating state machines
    - paul: hoping to get some community management tools in ctzn. get some tunning down and perf improvements!
    - serapath: hope to finish state machines and messaging so we can start using it on frontend
    - mauve: hope to get consento groups published and running!

## Action Items

- Mauve send Serapath deetz on OSF -> https://www.opencollective.foundation/#whatDoWeDo
- Mauve introduce Martin to protocol labs folks
- Martin: markdown file with orgs doc in some org repo.
- Review Open Collective stuff

## Next Facilitator

- PAUL :+1: