# Dat Consortium Meeting 30


**2020-Jan-20 Wed**

## Participants

* @zootella Kevin Faaborg
* pfrazee
* rangermauve
* nina
* martin
* serapath
* franz


## Agenda Items

- Revisit Open Collective migration
- Dat logo (on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dat_protocol) and elsewhere)
- Finish manifesto
- connect Discord, IRC and Gitter to engage the whole community

## Action Items


Kevin asked Joe Hand on the email thread:
* How much money do we have?
* Do assets have to be transferred to a US 501c3?

Two small questions for the group:
* dat.foundation domain
* dat logo, dat:// to dat and hyper://

Logo/rebranding:
* Change dat logo from "dat://" to "dat" (kevin)


## Notes

### Catchup

- Ranger spoke at speakeasyjs, went well. Working on Natakanu project at a miniconf in AU. Working on Agregore.
- Nina working on datdot, how to solve trust in hoster's declared locations by latency triangulation.
- Alex working with Nina on datdot and triangulation, also working on app frontend/backend tooling around hyper*. Also solving process-cluster management for running simulations (scenario-simulator).
- Franz has been dealing with non-coding things
- Kevin also busy with non-code things
- Martin is working on a hybrid logical clock. Talked with tradle team about it and compared with their impl. Interesting tech but not simple. Also working on a perms system with Mauve and making good progress, but still some work to be done. (A system for multiwriter which enables multiple devices to share a hypercore and can manage devices safely.) Also publishing some small modules, including a TS definition generator for protobufs.
- Paul coding CTZN, live streaming the coding. Data in hyperbee. Federated approach rather than pure peer-to-peer. Table schemas: create a table by making a JSON schema, URL identified. Recorded a talk for FOSDEM on decentralized social networks (more general than hyper).

### Open Collective migration

- Kevin: There's an email thread from december w/karissa & joe (CS&S) where joe outlines how to split away from CS&S. (See "from joe's email" below.) Two questions brought up- 1. do we have to transfer to new domain names? There are both technical and legal reasons which say yes. 2. How much money do we have? Kevin has heard (but not confirmed) numbers that range from $2-30k USD. From those questions, Kevin added 2 questions of his own to the email thread and hasn't heard back yet. Are those good questions, are there more to ask?
- Nina: Those questions are good
- Franz: SGTM. The money question is possibly most important. With the domains, I dont think there's immediate pressure because we can setup new things and look into the best way to move forward. Can just leave redirect info on the old sites. As long as the old ones stay online with redirects.
- Kevin: Joe has said redirects would be easy and solve both the technical and legal issues. It's fine for CS&S to still host and own those domains but just make it redirect.
- Nina: I'd like to hear an answer on why we can't use the existing domains? Could we pay CS&S to maintain them?
- Paul: my guess is that they really want to disentangle themselves from us. We probably won't get a better deal than them maintaining redirects, but we could certainly ask.
- Kevin: I assume it doesn't cost them a lot to do the redirect hosting. I have some experience with US non-profits and they can only pass assets to other tax-exempt orgs, because if that asset became valuable in a tax-exempt entity and was transfered for free to a for-profit, it would be tax evasion. There are options which are also non-profit entities which we create so they can transfer the assets safely. The Open-Source Foundation (which we're transferring fund management to) might be an option.
- Nina: I really need clarity about this. What bothers me right now that I don't understand if it's really an issue. The technical side shouldn't be that hard. If they're just redirecting then how long will they do that? They could drop the redirect at any time.
- Martin: Many of the hurdles aren't really hurdles; if you have the redirect, that domain stays up for a year or so. If that domain goes on the market, we could ask them to let us know so we could then buy it. Probably easier to think more about what we want to have.
- Franz: Agree with martin and I think it's important we look into what we want to do. Nina's website looks really good. I think we should just redirect to that. With CS&S we should just talk about the money ASAP.
- Nina: I think the main value is people knowing the domain and maybe searching and picking it. Also SEO. There is value there. If we go for a new domain, we should all agree to cross-link it to help the SEO.
- Kevin: Are we imagining a new domain name, or maybe imagining getting one of them?
- Paul: I think we're probably going to have to get a new domain. Nina did you make a website?
- Nina: Yes it's at https://dat-ecosystem.github.io/. I also registered dat-ecosystem.org and I'd be happen to give it to the consortium.
- Kevin: It'd be great if this site could be our primary hub. Okay so we have 2 twitter accounts right now, a dat protocol and a hyper protocol twitter. The dat one has way more followers. How do we fix the visual logo and handle rebranding in general? On the visual logo, perhaps we put "hyper://" on it?
- Paul: +1 to that idea on the visual logo. I'd propose we keep both twitter accounts and rename the dat twitter account to dat ecosystem and have it continue in that function.
- Nina: Primary goal is to be clear about the hyper/dat relationship. I'm not sure about adding "hyper://" to the dat logo. Maybe we just go back to the empty hexagon? Then it becomes usable with each project as a kind of "dat ecosystem" moniker.
- Mauve: +1 to paul's proposal about the twitter accounts, +1 to nina's proposal about the logo.
- Paul: Same.
- Kevin: The twitter is currently @dat_protocol. The only thing I want to address right away is to remove the :// from the logo on that twitter. We definitely need to retire "dat://" from the visual logo.
- Nina: The twitter being dat_**protocol** is definitely a problem.
- Franz: We can change the handle.
- Nina: Maybe we just rename the handle and then change the other stuff later.
- Franz: I'd suggest it the other way around first- rename the logo first and then change the handle.
- Paul: We can also tweet an explanation and pin that tweet.
- Nina: Yes how do we communicate this? Lots of people are still saying dat. So let's all communicate this together. We'd also need hyper to link back. Then it's all 100% clear and there's no clash.
- Paul: No blockers from the hyper perspective there.
- Kevin: I'm +1 to changing everything but the twitter handle, and change that after a month or two. Just worried about people going away. Make sure we communicate a clear story about what's happening. Looks like we've got consensus on changing the handle after. How do people feel about, as a first step, removing "://" from the existing logo and centering the word "dat"?
- *All agree*
- Nina: Can we make a timeline on further changes? Change the twitter account info, change the twitter handle, launch the website, maybe blogposts?
- Kevin: Not sure about when but I think it's 3 steps: logo now, web presence next, last is twitter handle.
- Serapath: RE the logo, we can make project logos where they have a custom logos where they use the same frame but fill the inside with the project logo.
- Kevin: +1, I dig that for ara. Closing items?
- Martin: I am out of funding. My company is still ongoing but I'm personally out of funding and looking for projects that might have synergies with the work.
- Nina: I have some ideas and will send you the links. The org we go to for funding is giving funding for research projects. They have a treasury built from their blockchain transactions and the holders decide what to fund. There's opportunity there for nice grants.
-


### From Joe's email, possible transfer plan

*Trademarks, Logo, etc:*

* *Action by CSS: Explicitly license assets and other work as CC0*
* *Action by you: Nothing*

*Software:*

* *Action by CSS: Check licensing for work done by Dat, make sure that all assets are licensed*
* *Action by you: Be aware of how to relicense and potential issues with license stacking*

*Domains:*

* *Action by CSS: Set up "retired" pages that direct to your new domain, transfer ownership of any services as necessary*
* *Action by you: Set up a new domains for new work on the project*

### Updates

### Notes

Group discussion about transferring domains: We would come up with a new domain name, CS&S would forward traffic there, for a number of years. CS&S can't transfer ownership of existing domains to us.

Funds: CS&S hasn't recently given us a number as to the amount of funds that will be transferred, but several of us remember 20-30k.

Brand: We agree there is value in the Dat brand, and we should keep that. There may be a requirement to keep the Dat brand to be able to transfer the money.


