# Dat Consortium Meeting 42


**2021-07-07**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210623T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- mauve
- martin
- serapath
- paul
- kevin
- nina
- diego
- franz

## Agenda Items

- Updates
- Grant from CS&S => https://hackmd.io/jHruEs2uTQGpLqtFzJhsHA (choose **content proposal** and **process proposal**)
  - ideas for a high level theme to derive a specific **"content proposal"**
    - dat-ecosystem joining rules https://hackmd.io/5zL2Qt4_Sv6-_YgY8rJspg
  - dat-ecosystem as a garden https://hackmd.io/SUqtds4pRcOlRG-Zxqbd7A


## Updates

- Alex: Working on Datdot, improving logs. Got plenty of logs, want to be able to filter them and make it easier to figure out what's going on, using same logging system on the browser and the frontend.
- Nina: Updating project to use HyperswarmV3 for public key of users. Debugging errors.
- Diego: Project now called "Sher". We are finding target audience and plan an invite. Re-writing internal parts atm. Early users in Argentina atm. Exploring on how to get outside users.
- Martin: Still IPFS grant, working on edge-cases like non-support of ttls.
- Paul: Vacation, Thinking about new ideas, talking to people. Thats it.
- Kevin: Working on DeFi, Geyzer (Token system) shipped v2 - nice team, to make tokens and decentralize them, can decentralize Ara individually and get it out into the world. Did a 10 day open test run of their system with people from community. Next step is to set it up for real and then no DeFi for a while. Going back to FileBrowser and p2p networking stack etc.
- Mauve: Super busy, with progress on IPFS protocol grant. Found bugs in Agregore & missing features in Brave. Hoping that it should be easy enough to support hyper. Presenting on browsers3000 by Protocol labs. Mostly about blockchain, but maybe some p2p. Searching for a cat.
- Franz: Not much dat recently. Working on Project working on federated media project with fulltext-search on audio. Just started on the replication-able core in rust. Hopefully sooner-than-later p2p connection will come there. Using CouchDB - which has some p2p connection. Maybe using CouchDB over hyperswarm? Part of a housing collective and now spend a lot of time on renovations. Less code.

_Mauve note:_ My friend garbados is working on PouchDB if you need the contact.

## Notes

### Grant

Alex: We created a document (see above) where we encouraged the members to propose two things: one the consortium process and one for the actual process. Trying to tie in recent documents on joining rules and marketing (discussed in previous meeting) for more self-sustainable projects. These may flow into a content proposal. We probably we should have first consensus on how to spend the time. I hope today we can agree on how to proceed.

Nina: Would you mind sharing your proposal.

Mauve: Do we need to read through the proposal?

Nina: I am more interested in Alex's interpretation.

Mauve: No problem.

Alex: With some input from Martin, Diego and Nina. Summary: Higher goals with a garden as incubator for hyper-based projects. What can we do to bring the ecosystem there. The consortium will not be paid for that. The details of the content proposal would be worked on by a grant team. They write down the grant proposal to submit by CS&S. The grant team would not get paid in the number. They will only get 25% and the rest (75%) should be outsourced. The grant team would iterate until consortium & cs&s is okay. This could become multiple grants/subgrants depending on the given proposal. The specific proposal should be by the grant team and the consortium should then make their mind.

Mauve: Would turning the dat-ecosystem into a garden work for Open Collective? Is the community garden thing in line with their vision?

Nina: I was thinking about this from a communication perspective. How could we present ourselves? Inspired by the tiers from the "joining rules". Not in the sense of Incubator. Being more systematic about approaching developers and users.

Mauve: Looking at the current about section on OCF.

Alex: (Note) The grant money can not be spent on modules/dat but has to be spent on the transition/documentation. Not the software itself.

Diego: I dont have a specific question to Alex's proposal. Nina's is abit more shortend which is nice. Maybe we should get more information. This first email is nice, we should have a meeting with them to know more about them, what they are expecting from this grant. It is an opportunity to communicate to the outside world what our governance doing to the outside world. We should reach people in the hyper- discord. I have some part-time availability to work on this. If there is some room I would like to participate. Other people are welcome to join.

Mauve: Responses? No.

Paul: Nothing terribly specific to add here. Some kind of structure for the dat-ecosystem would be good to have. In node.js things come together. We are still not clear on the core structure that we are coming together under. We could be somehow thinking on how this comes together more specifically. It makes sense that people start thinking on that.

Martin: I think if people are on a team, there is no need to wait for consortium meetings to start working on things, it'd be nice if when we have meetings there are proposals available, I was hoping we'd have a proposal today we can say OK or not on. Might be prudent that if there was a working group that they'd make it a yes or no decision and set that out beforehand. I think the whole process that was layed out is missing some mention of when to communicate things, I think it's okay to communicate with CS&S in advance of the proposal, say "We are part of this team, we had 48 hours for folks to join, now we're talking to that party as the working group, not the final deciders but we're working on a proposal, wanna share it in advance." So afterwards it becomes a quick decision.

Mauve: Comments? No.

Kevin: Question: these funds can't be used to actually develop the project. This is about 20k roughly. These are coming from CS&S: My question is: "why not?". Translating key parts of that into would be nice.

Mauve: (Constipulation) CS&S got that money initially under that restriction and they cant open it for other efforts.

Franz: I would be interested working on documentation and connecting projects, initially, when I read the 20k usd with the technical writing or onboarding material and briding projects would be my content proposal. I won't have time to work on it. Agreeing with the general idea. I would not have all done by the 3 people but would try to find outsiders to work on this as well.

Mauve: Other comments?

Nina: 20k seemed like quite a lot of money. Starting and doing something may be a problem when we it has to be split eventually. How can we approach this: Maybe it should be more top-down? Having a team to spend more time working on this as a management or communications team. And we split - based on the feedback more smaller tasks. Small bounty system to grab a task, do-something and earn a little. It seems stupid to give this to one team that can focus on this. I would like to spread this possibly.

Martin: Responsibility is important. The person signing a proposal should be responsible for getting it done. I think having multiple people responsible is a recipe for conflict. At least that is one perspective. If there are multiple heads that feel responsible, those people should know each other well and communicate often. Else that will likely become a problem. I would also suggest that those people that create the proposal are responsible for it, not the whole consortium. In the end the consoritum is helping steer but they aren't following it through fully, so they shouldn't be held accountable for making sure it's finished on time.

Nina: I agree with you, I think that the grant team should make a proposal of how these bounties will be dispersed and what are the milestones / what happens if it's not done. THen the consortium will know better and can do comments, have requirements on how to do this microgrant. I imagine the team will estimate the tasks and put on the price tags.

Mauve: Other comments? - Personally I really worried about the whole micro-grant structure. I worry that the incentive isn't that great. The work on a grant may have some research involved and propose things that don't fit with the budget and then I end up doing work I don't really get paid for. 50usd grants may be there but then we are missing a person pushing it through. This may be good for people doing things as "first contribution" or a little side-money but this could not sustain anybody. If we don't try to sustain someone we will not find people dedicate to do it well. Larger milestones and payouts would be a good idea. Or maybe adjustable budgets may be the way to go. I will not block it if someone else can work with smaller grants.

Nina: Sharing personal experience: We applied for a grant but eventually it took longer. If we put this into smaller problems. I don't think this will change anything.

Franz: Agreeing with Mauve. There may be some middle ground: for example: talking about technical writing earlier: announcing it as a bounty and finding a technical person that has insight may work. It may not be as profitable to the individual but it might work. Only a core group may not be the best way to go.

Mauve: What about having a mix about terms. We need to have 25% of the budget go to a group anyways, and whatever they do will be more than long-term.

Alex: Commenting on a few things: The relationship dat/hyper should be clear. If its a garden, the hypercore protocol may become the first project that becomes independent and we could phrase it as first success story with more to follow. Maybe like Ara. For story-telling. Martin about the proposal: The grant team would meet and work out more of the details to reach out immediately. About bounties or whatever. The proposal as such should contain _how_ it will be done. The grant-team will get 25% of this anyways. And they will get more, the more is done. With a poor estimate, in this decentralized ecosystem. It would be good to practice on how to estimate things and what to do if that goes wrong.

Mauve: Can we summarize and make tasks for next meeting.

Alex: The grant team could work on making it clearer.

Martin: Can we get a committement for the grant team? As in, "we'll have this by the next meeting".

Mauve: Who want's to be on the team and commit to do the thing for next week

Alex: The grant team cannot work on the actual tasks, it's more like management

Nina: Yes from me to be on the grant team. To try to get CS&S to agree with a proposal that will relfect the feedback given by the consortium and to work on bringing the dat ecosystem to the next stage (clean up the repos, make a plan, first round of execution with clearer comms)

Alex: Technically it'll be the first five bullet points in the process proposal. Breaking it down into tasks and estimating them, communicating with CS&S, writing proposal, helping select team members.

Martin: This means you are up for it?

Alex: Yeah, I can do it.

Martin: People working on the grant team.

Kevin: I will reviewing things as they are coming.

Mauve: There is still a bit of confusion. We don't not have a set of people.

Martin: I was looking for the information if there is an answer.

Mauve: Is there something there should be done until next meeting.

Martin: I want to send an email to Joe to ask for more time to decide on the grant team.

Nina: I don't think this is necessary, it'd be good to set a deadline. Alex and I want to commit, but if others want to join we should have a date until when they can say yes or no. I'm willing to work on this even if it isn't accepted, willing to do the work for free, into asking people to join. Would 48 hours be enough?

Diego: Next step is for Nina, Alex and me and we should be coordinating on discord. From my side, we should point out that there is a grant team working on this. After having that clear we can start putting deadlines around this.

Martin: To be clear: I will not send anything to Joe, leaving this to the grant team.

Diego: This is the first grant we are receiving and this is the first step and the extra time at the beginning seems normal that may help future grants and future processes.

## Agenda items review


## Action Items

- grant team will have its first meeting Friday same time
    - initial participants:
        - Nina
        - Diego
        - Alex
        - mauve ?
- contact cs&s right after :email:


## Next Facilitator:

Kevin! :trophy:




