# Dat Consortium Meeting 47


**2021-09-29**

10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210929T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- diego
- kevin
- paul
- alex

## Agenda Items

- Grant Team Update
- OC long term or transition to be on our own?

## Notes

- Personal Updates
    - kevin: working with nfts, updating ara archive, research.
    - paul: atek is going well. also taking calls, getting feedback. Finding first users and first customers. "Testing the waters". Good energy around the project. Re-work around atek db (hyperbee). Limited resources, balancing load. Leveraging hyperswarm stack (after adb). P2Psockets and identity work.
    - alex: hospital apointment. recovery in progress. Refining messages mechanisms.

- Grant Team Update
    - agreement signed (CS&S - Dat Ecosystem Consortium - OC)
    - money will be transfered from CS&S to OC in the next few days
    - grant team is working defining details around tasks, possibly reaching candidates directly. All other tasks will be public. There will be a public repo with a markdown doc introducing the grant mission, importance and the public tasks. We can share that on discord, twitter and other closer communites (ssb, cabal, etc).

- OC long term or transition to be on our own
    - think about options outside OC
    - OC takes 10% of any grant.
    - maybe a more "manual" approach. Bootstraping some company or organization.
    - check costs offers in the market.
    - unless OC has other advantages.
    - kevin: i'd like to hear mauve opinion.

## Next Facilitator

- alex (serapath) :trophy: