# Dat Consortium Meeting 44


**2021-08-04 DDD**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210721T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
Paul (Facilitator)
Nina
Kevin
Alex-serapath
Mauve

## Agenda Items

- Grant team continues
    - [Grant from CS&S](https://hackmd.io/d8hgmONGQ3i7bpMXtjaOUg)
- share links to good p2p/decentralized newsletter, media, communities for inspiration

## Notes

### Updates

- Nina
    - Working on second milestone of datdot, hopefully publish soon
    - Pushing the grant team
- Serapath
    - Also working on second milestone of datdot: developer tools
    - Next milestone is mostly ready but not 100% stable, so working on devtools to debug
- Ranger
    - Doing lots of stuff in hypercore protocol event handlers
    - Added event-source APIs to listen to hyperdrive changes and upload/download events
    - Working on adding extension messages so if you use hyper-gateway or aggregore you can subscribe to extension messages and broadcast them to your peers
    - Once this is in place, will do a demo in the godot engine
    - As part of the IPFS grant, doing cool stuff in Agregore's upload handlers - what does it mean to post form data to a URL. Hopefully this will make file uploading in the protocol handlers nicer since now you can upload multiple files at once rather than individually.
    - Also working on updating hyperswarm-web. It's not using the new Hyperswarm DHT yet because that's still WIP. Looking to improve the initial peer connection time and add more aggressive peer dedup, mainly through the spanning tree algorithm.
    - This friday, there's going to be a meeting with the Open Collective foundation. They're reaching out to all of their projects and talking about what they're doing and seeing if they can help us find funding or etc.
    - Also, added some stuff to corestore-networker and Hyperdrive and might be adding more stuff there for docs and minor features/patches
- Kevin
    - The Defi is setup! Spent the last 2 weeks cleaning up comms around that. The pinned medium post on the Ara blog describes the whole thing.
    - Now switching gears back to software & app development.
    - Also back in new york
- Paul
    - Tweeted about what I'm working on. Self hosted cloud idea, got started when working on ctzn. Eventually figured it's a good idea, working on "self cloud" which orchestrates deno processes with a hyper backend. Working on three/four weeks. Got basics working, able to run applications (from Github), nice GUIs. Working on database layer, tracking permissions and APIs. Hoping to be no more than three weeks before showing more and opening the source so when people see it they have a clear picture of what's going on. Gotta talk about games in general. Interested in virtual worlds


### Grant team continues

- Presented an outline to danielle from CS&S. She seemed +1. Outlined some todos.
- Need to create a vision statement and get that approved by Danielle, and then can start.
- Thoughts on the vision statement
    - Current statement "draft": "dat ecosystem as a garden => promote p2p culture, hypercore protocol and grow & support projects building on top of it"
- Ranger: in relation to OCF, how can relate it to social good? OCF tends to be interested in that. If it seems like a kind of tech-hobby, that might work against us.
- Nina: agree we should think about that
- Paul: I think it's a good idea to mention hypercore to be specific about our tech
- Ranger: we could talk about privacy, resiliency, developing countries, making education more accessible...
- Nina: we should find other projects doing similar things and try to figure out where we're different. Everything tends to blend together in the space.
- Ranger: in terms of the social or technical focus?
- Nina: Both? Maybe the social focus is the same but our tech is different?
- Ranger: That seems fair. The tech does have different tradeoffs from eg SSB or IPFS.
- Nina: Maybe we try to explain why we bet on this tech?
- Ranger: Personal thoughts - I like the tech because it's easy to use, secure, and fast. I think that's something that's really important for getting people to actually use it. If it's overly complex, that ruins accessibility. Compare that to hyperdrive/hyperbee, it's obvious what it does and it handles a lot for you. Sparse loading is particulary useful here; SSB was unusable for a while because it didn't have that.
- Alex: I like it because it feels empowering to me and to users. Empowering = full control of your data. Once you use it and interact with others, the hyper URLs can be used in other contexts. Data ownership and control.
- Nina: As a dev, I feel I can wrap my head around the tech. It's modular so I can understand what's going on.
- Paul: Not only is it usable but it's high quality tech. For instance, the next version of hyperswarm is going to have connection authentication built in, plus it has hole-punching built into the DHT. Those kinds of features really stand out.
- Nina: Also there's very little lockin. In eth, if you write smart contracts you're locked into the tech forever. Here it feels much more independent.
- Alex: It's also conceptually simple.
- Kevin: There's mutability and privacy to a hyperdrive that isn't reflected in how IPFS works. That makes hyper apps naturally more useful and more friendly.
- Paul: So maybe trying to reflect these attributes back into the vision statement, could it be eg "promoting p2p technologies which are private, easy-to-use, and fast"
- Nina: How do we deal with the downsides of tech like this, e.g. CP sharing? Is there something about the "why this is worth doing" that's worth including?
- Ranger: Personally- these needs aren't being served by the existing tech communities. The profit motive causes people or tasks to be ignored. Local-first and privacy-first means those people get these benefits out of the box. As this gets more usable, it gets easier for people to make software. Esp in developing or oppressive countries or for people who face a lot of social risk.
- Kevin: +1 to that -- another angle, the major corporate monopolies reduce the amount of opinions/policies about what's permissable. That's risky because it could change. It's a problem to have ONE opinion control this much.
- Paul: Also important for virtual worlds, don't want Facebook to own reality. People should be able to express themselves through software (think: modding culture, open source, personal computing).
- Nina: So how are we different from others in this space? Tech stack, yes. Values? We probably share many of them.
- Ranger: One difference from IPFS - it's more focused on businesses and blockchains. They have filecoin and are interested in fiscal incentive structures and governance through smart contracts. They're less focused on people who aren't already served. It's more on the capitalist side -- which is okay, that's important -- but not my focus. It's also a larger ecosystem with more priorities.
- Alex: One thing to consider: how things work in practice. IPFS has lots of funding and employees. As maf says, we're "hyper modular." This means the ecosystem has more freedom to produce different things. It's more independent and then can interoperate. If there's a larger central company, that company could make ecosystem-level decisions, whereas a modular approach leads to distributed decision-making.
- Kevin: If you're using a single, moneyed, hierarchical org -- then how decentralized is your product if the process for making it isnt? Hyper modularity means more organic.
- Paul: There is some centralization on the hyper core protocol dev, but we clearly all believe in hyper modularity.
- Ranger: There is a *lot* of collaboration in IPFS though, and they give out a lot of grants with minimal oversight. It's not super fair to focus on their centralization; they're not our enemy. It's good to focus on what we like but let's not say anything negative about anybody else.
- Nina: Agree in some ways, but we're trying to find a differentiator. That's not inherently negative. One way to describe how we work differently: there's no approval process in hyper. If anybody wants to pick something up, they can.
- Ranger: There are a lot of people using IPFS independently of the core; e.g. Textile. While PL does give out grants which require their approval, it's not fair to say they don't allow external decisions. In a lot of ways, Hyper is not much more collaborative. We're pretty downstream of Maf and his team.
- Alex: In my experience with the eth foundation, the people who give the grants and make the decisions about that tends to depend on whether they fit the larger ideas. If they don't the funding stops.
- Paul: It's basically a highly-opinionated core that doesn't really upstream or collaborate outsite a WHOLE lot, but because it's hyper modular there's a lot of open decision making that can happen downstream of them.
- Nina: So how do we express the differentation of the technology? Mutability and privacy? How do we find our unique position? Esp compared to IPFS. How do we "position our brand" -- aka communicate clearly to people what this is. What drawer do we fit in?
- Paul: I think we could combine the technology and values: privacy and easy-to-use: something that anybody can pull off-the-shelf to easily get private, p2p, fast, interoperable software.
- Ranger: Can also work in the values and talk about how the tech enables that.
- Nina: Is this tech the only tech that could do this?
- Ranger: Any tech could do anything. Right now, what I'm doing with IPFS protocol handlers -- we can do 80% of what hyperdrive gives us there. Once content encryption is there, it's even easier in some ways. The 3 things we have that other protos dont have *yet*: fast sparse replication, fast dht, fast mutability.

### Inspiration / ideas around website

### OCF meeting on friday

- Ranger: Should I talk about the grant stuff with CS&S? Should I focus on listening? Ask for funding sources?
- Nina: For this grant, it's pretty clear Danielle is waiting for this proposal to finish, hopefully in a week or two. Funds for helping new projects? Microgrants?
- Paul: Yeah we could probably just share what we're up to and see what they want.
- Ranger: Probably not a lengthy 1-on-1 so I'll share about us briefly. I'll take notes and share.

## Next Action Items

## Next Facilitator

Alex (Serapath)