# Dat Consortium Meeting 31

**2021-Feb-03 Wed**
10am San Francisco;
1pm New York;
6pm London;
7pm Berlin
[timezones](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=<YYYYMMDDTHH>&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
* [@serapath](https://twitter.com/serapath) (Facilitator)
* pfrazee
* kevin faaborg
* diego paez
* nina breznik
* franz heinzmann
* martin

## Agenda Items

0. [x] intro/updates/notes-taking
1. [x] Revisit Open Collective migration [@zootella](https://twitter.com/zootella)
2. [x] Dat logo (on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/dat_protocol) and elsewhere)
3. [ ] Finish manifesto [@ninabreznik](https://twitter.com/ninabreznik)
4. [x] Github repos migration to the new org [@serapath](https://twitter.com/serapath)


## Action Items

0. Think about what the new name will be ("Dat Ecosystem"? Other?)
1. Try to get a reply from CS&S
2. Use signal to share dat twitter creds (share #s via discord later)
3. Update the dat twitter visual logos (pfrazee)

## Meeting Notes

## Updates

- Frando: not having enough time to work on sonar as much as I want to, still some progress there. There's a dev branch (next) that has the current iteration and I'm starting on docs for an alpha version. Can now replicate collections and the FTS works nicely. The data model is really similar to CTZN. Upgrading it to use hyperbees, internally using kappa-core style indexes. Tomorrow having a livestream with karissa at 6pm berlin time (?) about Dat Rust; discussing current state and talking next steps. Been kind of dormant over the past year; some work early 2020 but then stopped because of involvement churn. Will get back to that, do an overview, and looking for people looking to join in. Some funding available. Please send along rustaceans.
- Paul: if you can share a tweet I can boost it.
- Frando: yeah there may be on on the dat twitter already (https://twitter.com/dat_protocol/status/1355988820714377217), will ping you on discord.
- Paul: been working on ctzn (livestreaming). We now have the ability to servers talk to each other (federated scheme). Community testnet day on Saturday. Big testing event.  That's progressing well.
- Diego: been working on a new product. It falls into the streaming-platform category. Playing with voice. Hope to share more soon.
- Kevin: Ara has a bigger update than usual! It's an electron-based desktop app which creators & fans can use to release music albums, podcasts, etc, then accept donations or sell in a decentralized way. Uses ethereum and hyper. Uses an ERC20 token called "ARA." Recently created a token liquidity-pool for ARA so it's now buyable via ethereum.
- Martin: been working on funding and conceptualizing things. Recently published a list of building blocks & concepts that consento need to work (https://consento.org/blocks/). Applied for some grants (2 me, 2 daniel, 1 or 2 mauve). Looking for collaborators on those building blocks. Made some progress on decentralized groups.
- Nina: working on datdot. Complex! Almost ready for a testnet. Doing some refactors. Introducing network roles (tester, hoster, etc). Created simulation chains to help with dev.
- Alex: Did some work pulling repositories from the old dat orgs to new ones. Moved all previous websites to github pages. Still need to add redirects to them. Wrote a little scraper for catching a "blessed list" of modules (eg hyper*), grabbing deps and dependers, and producing a graph viz.

## Revisit Open Collective Migration

- Kevin: No replies to the email thread yet. I'll try to bump that again.
- Franz: Last email was on the 18 of jan, about 2 weeks ago. Seems like time to send a reminder.
- Nina: what's left?
- Franz: email had two questions. 1, can we transfer domain ownership if we had a 501c3. 2, how much money is left? So if we can bump that again, that'd be good.
- Kevin: Those aren't the only 2 questions we have but those are the 2 I focused on.
- Nina: one more question, maybe we won't try to get the domains and brands from CS&S. If we're all 100% on the "dat ecosystem" brand change, maybe we just change the transferring question for them to a redirecting plan.
- Paul: does anybody disagree with the "dat ecosystem" brand change?
- Franz: At times I'm not super sure if "ecosystem" is the best term, we're more of a collection of people, but that's not hugely important to me. Don't have a better term. "Collective" implies more than we are. Keen to hear other ideas but also fine with just "ecosystem."
- Kevin: I agree about "ecosystem" vs "group of people." I'm hoping we become more of an ecosystem over time. Separate from all that, if we can't get any of the domains from CS&S then "dat ecosystem" is really good. If we CAN get the domains, dat.foundation is pretty good.
- Nina: I was also thinking about this "foundation" thing, strong name but we're just not a foundation.
- Paul: I'm fine waiting to see if they'll transfer domains but I think they're so concerned about legal risk that they won't.
- Serapath: If they could export the blogposts for us, that would be helpful.
- Nina: Do we want access over the old domains?
- Franz: on the topic of the domain, I feel like we're having the same convo as the past 2 weeks. I propose we just wait for CS&S's response and plan for either way.
- Paul: Anybody disagree with waiting 2 weeks to see if they reply? *no disagreement* Okay let's wait to hear from CS&S. Let's also think about other names than "Dat Ecosystem" and discuss next week.

## Dat logo

- Paul: First step, we just need to get rid of the "://" on the logos used in @dat_protocol on Twitter
- Nina: Can we just get the creds shared?
- Kevin: I'd suggest we use Twitter's shared-access control tool rather than sharing the password
- Nina: Can you change the profile with that?
- Kevin: Not sure
- Martin: AFAIK the perm is only for tweeting. WDYT about using a dark crystal?
- Paul: I think we just need to share it via some safe chat, maybe signal. Why don't we share our signal numbers via discord after this then share it that way? *no disagreement*

## Manifesto

- Serapath: I think we left that with, we need to finish the transition first
- Nina: Manifesto is in a good waiting state, once everything about the transition maybe we can complete it and how we want to share it. Need for manifesto may not be as strong depending on if we have money or etc but we'll see.
- Martin: I think it should build the foundation of our collab here. Is the idea that this is our core doc, do we sign it?
- Nina: The whole process started when we were discussing how to deal with membership in the consortium, and what it's role is, etc.
- Martin: My understanding was that we need this for the CS&S transfer.
- Nina: I believe that had only to do with if we're forming a 501c3.
- Franz: The manifesto grew out of the need to self-define. We will need it once we form a new formal entity. I think we should hit this soon for the new OC entity.
- Paul: Do we actually need a formal entity before the OC?
- Franz: No, it might be that the open-collective foundation that they require something. We may just need a list of the "core stakeholders."
- Serapath: A UK nonprofit is relatively easier to form than in the US.
- Paul: How does domain ownership work if we don't have a formal entity when we register the new ones? My impression is whoever registers it would own it, and could donate it to any 501c3/similar in the future.
- Martin: Nina, could you possibly write down what's left to finish the manifesto? We should get some process for finishing the manifesto & consortium-membership.
- Nina: Could you do it martin?
- Martin: Would that be okay everyone if I take lead on that? *everyone agrees*.