# Dat Consortium Meeting 38


**2021-05-12**

### Participants
- serapath (Facilitator)
- paul
- martin
- nina
- franz
- diego
- kevin


## Agenda Items
1. **Check-in:** who are you and what are you building on the hyper* stack or dat?
2. **old actions**: [check previous action items](https://hackmd.io/@T6Wf5EsOQKe-6wyPjJPtuw/Hycn0F63r/%2FvX20ZLyRRf60lSP5VH2q9A)
3. **news from CS&S**: any progress? next steps? etc...?
4. **modules:** discuss `DNS module repo location`
   * should it (and other modules) be listed under `dat-ecosystem`?
   * should they live under projects and we list projects?
   * something else?
   * [serapath's take](https://discord.com/channels/765986527574360065/765998967389028445/837000197463867462)
   * _martin's take:_ As organization, _due to the way public-perception and marketing works_, we have two options: In or Out. Relinquishing all responsibility on code and focussing purely on communication aspects of community is an strategy. Keeping a project tied to the group, will give it our stamp of approval and is tied to our "reputation". As far as I know, part of our deal with cs&s states that we do take-over part of code. So the question, as I understand it, is not **if** but **how** and **which**. The second question to this is **where**. And for this I am seeing it as pragmatic to put all repos in one organzation. It will be easier for us to manage as multiple organizations are harder to manage and harder for outsiders to discern our goals. We could make it a priority for us to find active maintainers for repositories and hand them over. Alternatively we could also start archiving projects that we _can-not_ or _don't-want-to_ take care of. As far as adding new projects is concerned: We can still decide on a by-project basis if we want to take on the responsibility and ties or not.
5. **zoom2jitsi:** consider switching from ZOOM to JITSI
   * to use and support open source, like we committed to in the manifesto.
6. **joining rules:** draft rule document for project standards & requirements to get listed on dat-ecosystem page & discord

   1. for listing on website and/or discord under:
      * PROJECTS (= fully open source & long term committed & recommended by consortium)
      * OTHER PROJECTS (e.g. proprietary, in progress, etc...)
      * ARCHIVE (inactive projects)
      * AGENCIES (module agencies)

   2. add criteria for indicator badges:
      * e.g. prepare 5 min. screencast to explain tech
      * e.g. list what parts are open source
      * to what degree is a project open source? (and which license)
      * which other dat/hyper modules is it using and for what?
      * github link(s)
      * main contact channel (e.g. discord? cabal? telegram?)
      * docs/tutorials about how to setup/use the tech
      * ...
   3. for consortium:
      * unanimous vote of all members (see manifesto)
      * e.g. be long term in ecosystem (1-3 years)
        * to see they are comitted and dont just come for the hype
      * e.g. have projects fully open source
        * which licens(es)?
      * e.g. use hypercore and hyperswarm and use as many of the modules from other dat-ecosystem projects as possible or at least be interoperable with them
   4. for more see [old notes](https://hackmd.io/@T6Wf5EsOQKe-6wyPjJPtuw/Hycn0F63r/%2FvX20ZLyRRf60lSP5VH2q9A)
   5. user feedback (on ctzn livestream)
      * https://i.imgur.com/Wumg0QY.png




## Status Updates
- Martin
    - IPFS interested in a grant to improve on DNSLink; has some bugs to tackle. Proposal sent; awaiting answer.
    - Working on a Hypercore Protocol security article - discussing options for auth.
    - Been making some Hypercore PRs.
- Paul
    - Took last week off. Thinking about what to do next for ctzn -- looking for final touches for the project. Experimenting with some wysiwg editors.
- Nina
    - Spent last week on data verification from hypercores - Handling hoster proofs of storage.
- Kevin
    - Still working on improving trust, risk-management, & and general management of the Ara token. Checking out some tools - BarnBridge, Geyser.
- Diego
    - Working on infrastructure & beginning to deploy parts of .sher (an audio platform)
- Frando
    - Took some days off, not much to share
- Alex
    - Working on the state-machine based library to sync/communicate-between machines and write data to hypercores


## Action Item Review
- Mauve to add open collective access to all consortium members
    - **STATUS**: hasn't happened yet, carry over
- linking dat domains to cloned github pages i the dat-ecosystem repos
    - **STATUS**: hasn't happened yet, carry over
- following up on remaining resources with Joe (after this first round of migration is done)
    - **STATUS**: hasn't happened yet, carry over
    - Still need the open-collective access rights to resolve balances/invoices (mark transfer of funds to new OC account as paid). Looks like CS&S needs to mark paid.

## Ecosystem modules
- What gets put in the GH org?
- Martin: Let's start with what we _have_ to do and decide around them; we have plenty of old modules we need to take over. Moving the old repos is a good sign for the new org. Until then, I wouldn't add anything new. We should also ask around for maintainers for anything we don't carry over -- possibly have a trial period for the new maintainer.
- Alex: so far the GH has a many of the old repos, many of them forked. Should we go back and get *all* of them? So far I've focused mainly on the documentation-heavy one rather than the code ones.
- Martin: Why fork them?
- Alex: I did that because I don't have access to move them.
- Paul: agree with martin idea.
- Nina: agrees with martin. revisit things to see if we need to archive repos. Then evaluate if there is something usable and aligns with mission, or considering other option to add things.
- Kevin: No _very_ concrete opinions, would only add: think about the onramp for new users.
- Nina: would moving the dns repo cause a problem with the new one?
- Martin: can probably solve it.
- Alex: I'd personally rather see fewer repos in the org overall.
- Martin: We need to push the issue to CS&S. Paul might have access to some.
- Paul: Yeah I might.

## Officially move from zoom to jitsi
- Alex: are we +1 to switching to Jitsi?
- Paul: my only concern is stability of the calls and this seems to be working
- Alex: okay whoever facilitates next can do that

## Joining Rules

- Alex: I've assembled some ideas for deciding things like whether you can be listed on the site, have a discord channel, etc (in the agenda items).
- Paul: might be nice to set the next meeting to talk about this specifically. Discuss the info in the hackmd.
- Alex: any other comments? feedback is welcome.
- Martin: Could Alex take ownership of it to form a proposal? Talking about the possibilities is one thing, but it would help if we focused on the _actualities_ - basically assert a more opinionated proposal.
- Alex: Yes
- Martin: I'm not sure 100% FOSS can work
- Nina: Why not?
- Martin: Once money & contracts get involved, it becomes harder.
- Paul: [...] whats the purpose of being listed? maybe listing licenses on the diff projects would be good.
- Martin: my point was with the company (it shouldnt be fully OS as a requeriment)
- Alex: I like the idea of just indicating their licenses.
- Nina: In the ethereum ecosystem, people with investor connections have a habit of just selling the FOSS code.

## Action Items
- Mauve to add open collective access to all consortium members
- linking dat domains to cloned github pages in the dat-ecosystem repos
- following up on remaining resources with Joe (after this first round of migration is done)
- Alex to create a proposal for rules to include projects in website, discord, etc.

## Next facilitator
-  Diego :-)

