# Dat Consortium Meeting 3

Wed 2019-11-13, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_

## Agenda

(Draft from Karissa)

1. Announcements
2. Upcoming hyper*stack/protocol working group
3. Overview of last calls: other topics that people want to self-organize, go through note summaries (RangerMauve)
4. Structure/frequency of virtual gatherings (e.g., what Alex was discussing around decentralized organization & what does 'membership' look like?)
5. Identify any volunteers for specific needs
6. Wrap up & next call agenda/time

(Notes from last time)

- Ideas for how to improve communication from projects. Whether each project has a blog or something similar.
- How does the current planning work? We should know this before we improve it.
- What do you want the goal to be? We should know this before figuring out membership.
- What do you want from the Dat Protocol Foundation?

https://hackmd.io/My4oOYAZR4SKx0YotxQyFg

----

Minutes:

## Updates

- Mauve: working on hyperswarm-web
- Karissa: working on Mapeo / writing grants
- cblgh: Focusing on thesis (moderation), working on cabal replication diagnostics tool, instantiates cabal instances and controls them via websockets. Pair programming with nickwarner to get cabal-client into the desktop, new cli release and destkop release planned.
- Diego: Working on SDK
- Franz: Working on DB project Sonar, working on kappa-core. Did talk about Dat at community radio
- Kevin: Building ara.one, connecting creators and fans. Open sourced Ara File Manager, interested in updating to Dat 2, interested in using the SDK, building compat with other projects.
- Paul: Calling new version "Beaker X". Getting to final stretch, doing dev diaries / tweets. Also putting videos on Youtube. Working to get the beta going by end of the year.
- serapath: Refactoring from hyperdrive to hypertrie for smart contract project. Updated slide deck for datdot - a p2p hosting alternative to hashbase. Looking for feedback
- mafintosh: Protocol lead of low level dat stuff. Adding renames to hyperdrive, progress on symlinks.
- noffle: Going over kappa-db projects, closing issues and merging PRs, upgrading new hypercore in multifeed
- substack: Working on crypto stuff because hypercore 8 doesn't work in browser. Doing that to work on pubsub experiments that he'd like to use in the browser for maps experiments.

## Dev meeting

mafintosh: Wanting to set up call with technical details, kicking off after consortium call.
mauve: SHould we send out in the email and put it in the newsletter
karissa: We shouldn't put it in the newsletter to reduce the amount of people in the call
pfrazee: +1
mafintosh: Yes, I agree, only people very interested in hypercore should join to keep it focused

## Communication

cblgh: serapath mentioned posting on IRC channels, I've been creating posts with updates on github. Just a bullet pointed list with an image or two. Just markdown and some images and 30 mins of time isn't exhausting. Just writing it somewhere where people know to work is an improvement over not talking at all. Maybe have specially formatted markdown with a GH.io page.
serapath: A document maintained by every project, from there they could link to PDFs / slide decks / videos so that new people can get overviews about what the project is about. Linking to where to talk about projects.
mauve: Maybe we can find volunteers to put this together after
karissa: Talked to noffle about using markdown and talking to people. Agreed with alex to do the upfront work to get stuff linked and then update the files. It could do a lot to increase visibility of different projects. Looked at the Mozilla module owner framework, it's a governence model where each module has an owner and a supporter (to reduce the bus factor), if the module owner wants to give up the module, there's a process for getting it to somebody else. Thought this could be useful to make sure there's always a module owner and people can know who to talk to about which module, who has an overview about all the things related to a particular module. We're already kind of doing that, Mozilla is a large project that can do this at scale that we won't have to reinvent the wheel for.
pfrazee: Using a monorepo that we give everybody write access to. We trust people so giving everyone write access should work since they can just edit markdown files.
serapath: Noffle and substack were talking about p2p livestreaming on twitter. It'd be good if we had cabal or other for chats, dog fooding projects built by the community to use with the community.
karissa: dogfooding is good, but it's a lot of work. If somebody wants to put that together, that's good, but it'd be good to get something simple started first before talking about where stuff is hosted
noffle: I think dogfooding is good, we might have issues in cabal / etc, and having issues in collaborating could be bad, preferring using github and IRC since we know it works well.
diego: Like the idea of having a maintainer per project. Thinking about what paul mentioned about having one place, that would be something too. Also, having links in every repo where you can have a conversation is good. It'd be simple to maintain and that's really important. We shouldn't add more work to developers.
franz: Having it managable and simple would help motivate people to do it. It sounds like a good idea to keep people on the move, even if there's no way to reach peopel there's at least the chat or the GH handles to reach out to people with.
mafintosh: Nothing extra to say
pfrazee: Everything was said that I wanted to say
mauve: Does anyone want to volunteer to put this together or have concrete steps to put this together?
cblgh: We shouldn't have a strong structure, just one folder per project and ISO named markdown files for update posts. Maybe have a media folder inside each to have images and reference them
mauve: Anyone wanna get a repo started?
cblgh: I can do it
mauve: I'll get in touch after to make sure you have everythign for that
karissa: We used to have datproject and datland, we former was for paid work and latter for community, we mostly have community stuff now, thinking of moving datland into datproject.
karissa: there's an open issue for the datland stuff
noffle: It'd be cool if "core" development was one of the projects
pfrazee: I'm up to pick up the slack on that if mathias can't
mauve: Thank you, having core updates would be super useful for everybody

## How does core planning work?

muave: How do you plan what happens next, how do you decide the roadmap, stuff like that. It's currently opaque and people don't know how it works so it'd be good to learn more.
mafintosh: There's two people doing core work, we plan by participating in the dat channel to see what features people want, see what resources we have available in terms of funding, since everything is very limited in terms of resources, mainly Andrew working on things, there's no big decision process, we look at how much resources we have and we pick the easiest from that, hypercore 8 was a big release and we had a lot of quick wins but went through a lot of iterations, same with hyperdrive 10, had to dial down the scope. The planning process right now is focused on getting hyperdrive 10 out, fixing bugs, and fixing scaling issues. Part of the plan of doing wednesday calls was to get more info for people on that.
mauve: Thanks for the insight! I'm guessing PRs / feature requests fall under the scarse resources
mafintosh: In the last few months we've been aiming for more long term goals. Right now the goal is to scale it to tonnes of users. That's part of the hyperswarm push we did, also part of the big iterations right now to reduce the footprint of loading hypercore. Got a lot of requests for this in the past. Trying to make things work the way people would expect. The mounts stuff was layed out in my DTN talk.
mauve: Thank you! I'm super excited about all of these features. Any questions about the process?
karissa: I'm happy to hear there's going to be a hypercore / hyperdrive meeting after the consortium call. Regarding the meeting length, maybe we should consider length.
mafintosh: We should cut a bit of time out of this one, two one hours instead of two one and a half hours. Reason I want to do back to back is that it's a lot of meetings.
karissa: I think it's a good idea, one hour for non-hypercore protocol and one hour for the core stuff.
karissa: If we're planning an event next yeer, we might need times to take more time on planning and less time on core dev conversations

## What do you want the goal of this group to be?

mauve: What I've been seeing is that we have a lot of wonderful people that want to work together but it's been very chaotic. All the information about this stuff is spread out and it's hard to find how everything works. One thing I wanted to do is to make it easier for peopel to collaborate. If one group is doing stuff with extensions it'd be good to get them in touch with others that do it. That way when people are doing the same thing they should work together on making standards instead of working in silos. Communication is super important. Regarding the dat foundation, it'd be good to set the prcedent of finding grants and using it as a fiscal sponsor so that projects in our community can be funded.
substack: The things you mentioned are soemthing I'd want out of something like this. Grant funding and communication.
serapath: Sounds good to me
pfrazee: +1
mafintosh: I think stuff like event coordination is something I'd love to see here. Ways to evangelize Dat more. General checkin is nice. Concretely, being more organized would be good.
franz: Grant funding and distribution is something I'd find interesting. Make more community work sustainable. Looking forward to see if this group manages to set up a dat conference in 2020.
diego: Agreed. Interested in how we as a group can figure out how to allocate resources. We're pretty far from what's happening as a company in Argentina, but we have a chance to talk with you and come up with projects. The part where we can benefit each other with resouces is every interesting to me.
cblgh: Echo the comments tha thave been spoken. Communical grant funding and resource allocation is dear to me. It'd be good to fund cabal. Appreicate checkins, hearing voices helps keep us intact with each other and disarm disagreements and bring the community together. Regarding a dat 2020 event, we can have a vanue in Malmo, it's a free venu because I know the people that own it.
karissa: Love to help with the grant funding side, figure out how to use the tax ID and ifnrastructure of the nonprofit for our benefit. Interested in event coordination and evangelism. Documentation.. kind of part of evangelism, there could be some collective work to help peopel get involved quicker. People answer questions in IRC over and over, maybe we can figur eout how to make that into resources.
noffle: Not sure what I think yet, gonna pass.
noffle: Haven't heard from nina or paul or martin
mauve: Initially we had one person per group talking, was that a mistake?
noffle: I'd like to hear from everyone
nina: I enjoyed the last gathering in Berlin every much, don't have any other ideas at the moment
martin: It'd be nice to work together more. Want to be sure that everyone is nice to each other. I want to go to this thing and be happy with our community. Do we have a code of conduct?
karissa: We have one for the dat project which would apply here.
serapath: Agreed with nina, been thinking about formalities of the project. It'd be interesting to make it a long term goal to make this call more redundant so that if we have more tools or channels we won't need a special call every two weeks anymore.

## Fundraising

karissa: We should pool grant proposals together, maybe not during the call.
mauve: Have more specific time blocks for talking about agenda call, having more sideband discussions.
mauve: Maybe we could split up the roles so that it's not one person doing it
cblgh: I like the idea of formalizing roles. Giving them time limits of who does which role, has some continuity but shares responsibility

## Consortium organization sustainability

karissa: People should know that Mauve is being paid to do community work. It's important to reduce the bus factor. It's impotant to have somebody leading the process right now, but to be self-sufficient we could prioritize transitioning that in the future to be community led. Just wanted to bring awareness to that. SSB, mix has been talking about paying people to do things like organize calls, we can talk about using the open collective to do that.
mauve: Putting some money on the table would make it easier to motivate people to spend time on it. Bus factor is a big factor of why I'm interested in talking about this. I worry what would happen if the dat project runs out of funding and suddenly I'd need a "real job" and won't be able to spend as much time on dat, how will we keep going in a healthy manner
nina: I've been thinking about this, it'd be good if you could figure out how to get a project yourself so you could use Dat for it instead of being funded by the Dat foundation. To own your own thing that you run and try to make money with
mauve: Yeah, that'd be pretty nice.
franz: Coordinating grants could extend to keeping us in the loop on potential contracts or ways to get money to work on open source technology. I think there's options that go beyond each of us having a company affiliation. What could potential collective models to spread those funds be.
serapath: Money and funding are something I'm thinking about a lot. Especially with the project we're starting in a few months. What would everyone's ideal scenario be with regards to dealing with funding be? That's what we've tried to capture - to make a mechanism to deal with this in the context of our project. It'd be good to get everyone's viewpoint, to see how something like this could work.
mauve: That should be a agenda item! Now that we're more aligned on goals it be good to know how to make decisions around goals.

## Membership

karissa: It's awesome to hear people's feedback and ideas. Excited around collaborating and fundraising. Been doing that work along with Danielle and Joe. It'd be cool to hear about how we can make decisions about who is a member of the group, who's allowed to be invited. We already have a lot of people in this call, it'd be good to not have 50 people in the call since most people wouldn't get to talk. How does a project get added? The existing process was Mauve and I making a list of projects that contributed to kappa and dat and compiled a list of all those people. "Who contributed to open source?" Wireline hasn't contributed open source so they didn't get added. I think it'd be important to prioritize peopel that contributed time over contributing money. People shouldn't be able to buy their way into the group. Other foundations have peopel buy their way in, it'd be good to avoid that.

## New Agenda Items

- Talk about fundraising more
- Talk about coordination and seeing if the roles Mauve is doing could be split up and rotated to reduce the bus factor

- How to use funding and decisions on funding (whoops, we missed it)
- Figuring out who should be allowed to be invited

## Actions

- Post your project updates in the repo

## Summary

- Technical meeting after consortium calls