# Dat Consortium Meeting 22


**2020-Sep-2 Wed**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20200902T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants (please add yourself, along with twitter/github/other or decentralized ids, and the organization you're here representing!)

* Kevin @zootella twitter and github, from Ara https://ara.one
* Paul Frazee
* Martin Heidegger
* Mauve
* Nina Breznik
* Serapath
* cblgh

## Action items

* next facilitator

## Next Agenda items

## Agenda Items

- Dreamy/mission-statementey icebreaker: Imagine the next 12 months with Dat+Hyper and your project go the best you can possibly imagine. What does that look like? What have we made together (software, product, people, organization)?
- Discuss the CLI
- Continue th add/remove talks
- Consolidation of the community communication (online) (Martin: combining irc, discord, etc.)

## Notes

- Starting with check-ins/updates/dreamy icebreaker
- Kevin: ice breaker idea - what do we in the community have in 12 months?
- Paul: 12 months from now, we have multiple browsers and multi device handler and I hope we would have something that people can't stop talking about. So that we get the buzz.
- Martin: I hope dat work on mobile devices and have stable APIs.
- Kevin: Would this require non-node implementations?
- Martin: -I missed most of this answer but I think the answer was no- Needs performance improvements, stability, a few API updates.
- Kevin: Serapath?
- Serapath: Hopefully in 12 months we'd have a stable testnet for dat-dot, which means you could download an electron app, enter a hyper address, and have it hosted by your friends or people on the network so even if you shut down your computer your data will be stable.
- Kevin: cblgh?
- cblgh: I hope that we have a DHT or connection-method which is privacy preserving and doesn't leak IPs.
- Kevin: That's reader privacy?
- Paul: It is
- Kevin: Where it's hard to find who created a drive or who is seeding it
- cblgh: You can't find where people are by their IPs
- Kevin: Nina?
- Nina: Bring dat to more regular people. It would be great to bring it to the browser -- I'd love to see it working with an extension or electron app or something. Second thing, that we have some cool useful product or project built with dat which empowers us as a community. Third thing, that we figure out funding without without VC money. How do we build supply chains that we get money back to each other.
- Kevin: Mine is, the CLI & the desktop app are back and on the new stack, and on top of that there's an app inside Beaker that's compelling enough that hat people are getting Beaker for the app not Beaker
- Mauve: 12 months, I'm hoping the fetch API will be standardized across projects and working in all platforms. I'm also hoping I'll be able to have something that boots into a p2p web OS, so that I can have phones that boot into local-first applications.
- Kevin: Agenda items: discuss the CLI, email thread discussion about pros/cons for active membership, do we have bylaws, do we have an attendence policy, does that involve the other existing policies. Third one, online community consolidation talks.
- Martin: That one was mine, I wanted to talk about what to do with IRC, Gitter, Discord, can we do something that brings these together? There are too many now.
- Kevin: Let's tackle this one. I'm not even sure I'm signed into the right places. One of them, on IRC in freenode, the #dat room: is that the oldest and most fundamental place? What's the main place that chat happens?
- Nina: I personally feel the main chat happens in the #dat IRC. I have a feeling it's happening inside the vaarious projects (cabal communicates in the cabal chat), hyper on the discord, and my question is where does the community communicate?
- Kevin: Related question is, is it still freenode #dat? Even though it's now the hyper stack? Is it now #hyper or #dat?
- Mauve: I think there is no 1 place anymore and it's a lot more fragmented than it was this time last year. I dont think there is a community channel, it's just ad-hoc channels. The name change is a part of it. The hyper discord seems to be more for beaker and core protocol stuff, but I'm not sure what the purpose is other than discussing beaker & core. I'm seeing a lot of cool discussion in the kappa-core and cabal channel. Do we need a central place beyond the mailing list?
- Nina: My 2 cents on this, that we gather the most important links in this community so there is maybe a go-to place, so that basically all the community chats link to each other.
- Mauve: There is the dat.foundation website community page, we tried to have people consolidate blogposts which never happened, maybe we can make sure that all the projects have their own chat link?
- Martin: I have no idea how this all is setup. I dont know who has access to the IRC channel, I heard a bit on the newsletter, so there are many communication forms. I dont know where I as a project have a newsletter/tweet, where would I register this? If there was a simple tutorial on how to integrate my things with the general chat, that would be cool. Separately, we call ourselves "dat" and we take value from the name recognition that we have, as far as that goes we do have channels where people can find us, people will try to find us under that, so what do we do with them? Do we ignore them? Third aspect: now that I'm in this consortium, it might be good if we had 1 chat room for this consortium. I'm not sure if it's necessary, but if someone is missing, it might be useful to ping everyone when a meeting is starting.
- Kevin: what if that place were the #dat channel in IRC?
- Martin: would be perfectly fine, question is, can we also have a separate consortium channel?
- Kevin: I think so. A truly sensitive conversation might be taken offline to an encrypted channel.
- Mauve: I like IRC but I think the usability is bad unless you're always online or paying for something. I'm using a matrix bridge and its super flaky. If it's important, I dont think IRC is the best place to post about it. Gitter is also messed up.
- Nina: I think it's very important we keep the old channel alive or figure out how to migrate people. People do know us by dat and are coming into that channel. Make lots of bridges? Also, what are the communication channels that the dat foundation has? Twitter/blog/newsletter? It would be nice to put these in the consortium. Then when we discuss membership and the rules about it, managing these channels would be a part of it.
- Kevin: Something I like, one page (maybe on dat.foundation) that we keep up to date to find where to go for each project. If we establish that single page as where we put our links, even if we never formally centralize communications, we'd at least have a good guide.
- cblgh (via chat): in the esc (european scuttlebutt collective) we use a signal group chat for the collective. Actually two (one for more important stuff, a second one for shitposts) that's basically what https://github.com/datproject/project-updates was :). So far it sounds like cabal would be useful. We do have some performance issues and no web client but it could be ideal (backlog, no registration or accts) for what we need.
- Nina: ideally we wouldnt need a signup for whatever we use.
- Kevin: Open in the sense that anybody can join?
- Nina: I was thinking that you can view it without having to join the chat
- Serapath: I personally like if you can use it from a web browser. It's all possible to use from the browser which makes it a lot more convenient than if I have to install an app.
- Martin: Last question, cblgh: do you think it's possible to use dat consortium funds to fund some development on cabal to integrate the chat with IRC or something?
- cblgh: I can't really answer for the funds (that's the consortiums decision). We did have an IRC gateway, but it needs maintenance because it broke when we made a major change.
- Martin: could you make a proposal for it?
- cblgh: Yeah we can talk about it on the mailing list.
- Serapath: If cabal could reliably sync with IRC, that'd enable web access.
- Kevin: would that enable people to read the chat and potentially post from IRC and switch to cabal later?
- cblgh: Yeah, if you just used cabal you'd have the backlog regardless, and the bot would keep the IRC channel up-to-date. The only problem would be that you have this bridge name that takes up a little space.
- Kevin: let's continue the discussion from last time and to cover the mailing list convo around bylaws and membership. A question I have: in that there is funding right now within dat, and we have to decide how to best spend those funds, then formal rules make sense. But from previous discussions it seems like a likely path moving forward is, there isn't a lot of money moving forward, and this is a conversation space for projects with their own funding. Why do we need bylaws and rules and private channels and voting powers? Is it just to determine how we spend money that we raised, or is there a purpose beyond that?
- Mauve: I was hoping the voting would only be needed for dealing with the Open Collective funds. So if we had grants/money going through the OC then the voting process is for using those funds, and to push out of that voting process as much as possible. Regarding bylaws, you need them otherwise people can abuse power or do shitty things. It's fair to put up-front how we're interacting so people have the same expecations. Not sure we need a private channel.
- Martin: The mailing list is private, this chat is private, any off-board channel is private. Having anything additional would just make private conversation easier. Why bylaws: because people got kicked off the group by a dictator and [separately] cblgh had a nice presentation on collaborative moderation. Not sure I'm comfortable with it in the consortium. In my thinking, voting is for who is added and who is removed, do we do something together and what do we do. If there's a big discussion like another rename, we can discuss it. These sort of things should require a vote. It's about how we try to do things together.
- Nina: My question would be, is the purpose of the consortium right now just to vote about the remaining funds, and after that it's nothing? If so then I would propose there be a transition period, and then we disolve this group and start a new one. I also think anyone who wants to participate should be able to participate but with some rules.
- Kevin: That's what I want as well. I hope we can spend the funds as well as we can, I also hope we don't exclude -- when there was discussion about attendance requirements, there were some people who spoke up that dont attend the meetings and I want them to stay involved at least by receiving those emails, then I hope no change scares them away.
- Serapath: Wanted to echo Nina, I get the point of the funding right now and it seems reasonable to have these bylaws and private channels; if these funds get used up, I find it a more interesting thought that each project has their own source of funding and the consortium is more of a place to coordinate (technical standards, related things) but the open collective cant hold the "dat brand." If the essential part of the consortium deals with the brand but only as a place to coordinate but doesnt have funding, that would be my personal preference after the current funds are used up. It seems to be a more stable structure that has less risks because funding isnt in play
- Martin: Independent of getting funding from orgs, when we ran the conference, we discussed getting funding from corporations (sponsorships) we would have pooled the money using the Open Collective. The bylaws would give the governance to deal with those things. Even if we are separately-funded projects, there are projects that might be group-spanning. Open Collective now has kickstarter-like campaigns, if we wanted to use that for cross-group campaigns, it could be done with this. I dont know if this needs to be private. The event group's problem was the tools didn't find acceptance. Not sure if it's private by reason or not.
- Kevin: is it private in the sense that there's no public place where the link you click is published?
- Martin: this meeting is private in the sense that only a group of people have the invite. The notes have not been public. Maybe 4 notes are in the repo. That's about comfort & competance of using hackmd; in a public setting, somebody could screw with the notes.
- Nina: If we go open, we need to discuss what to do with the remaining centralized structures of the dat foundation. What happens with the twitter, blog, mailing list accounts for example. It can't be controlled by everyone but it also can't be controlled by just one. Another thing, maybe the new membership could be weighted by things like seniority, contribution, how active they are, etc
- Kevin: As I've been saying for the last hour, what if this just became an informal hangout, I forgot there are things like the twitter account
- Serapath: I agree w/having bylaws, I know in other ecosystems they have groups for organizing things. Maybe we should write out plans for our ideals and work toward them?
- Martin: Let's please continue the conversation in the mailing list.
- Kevin: Would be happy to facilitate again.
- Nina: I loved today's discussion, dont know if it was the topic or you, but I'm +1.
- Kevin: Does anybody have anything else? Also want to shout out diego's dat comm comm, which could be a good feeder group into this group.
- Paul: any updates on open collective transfer?
- Ranger: nothing new, I posted an update in the org repo. Danielle is on vacation, she'll be back on the 7/8th. I posted to the mailing list if anybody has questions about the terms of Open Source Collective. I got questions from karissa and serapath which I'll send out. Other than that, just waiting for danielle.
- Nina: How much money do we have and how much do we lose to Open Collective? Should we consider putting the money in somewhere other than OC? OC is taking 10% or more, wouldn't it be valuable to rather put this money to one of the underfunded projects? 10% from, let's say 30k is already 3k.
- Ranger: We have about $2500 in the Open Collective and about $3k in CS&S. There's not a lot of money in there. I dont think they're taking a cut of the money in the transfer. I'm against putting the money anywhere other than OC (like someone's bank account).
- Serapath: In OC I read something about the 501c3 structure. As I recall, this is a legal requirement. Anybody know why?
- Kevin: It's a requirement because if you donate to aa non-profit as an individual you dont pay taxes, so moving the money to a for-profit would be tax evasion. Once money is in a non-profit, it's for non-profits.
- Martin: I think it's legal t transfer the ownership to the for-profit, you just need to pay taxes in that case.
- Serapath: I think the problem of going to the OC is that if anyone donats to us, they can't get a tax relief (which is lots of times the motivation behind the donations) so maybe we could explore if there are other ways to have a non-profit (for example in the UK you can open one for 13 GBP a year, online and you just define share-holders (which could be for the start consortium mambers))
- Mauve: We're over time, maybe we could continue discussing in the email thread.
- Serapath: OK, will post something on this topic and share the info I have so we can explore this further.
-

### Updates

