# Dat Consortium Meeting 23


**2020-Sep-16 Wed**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20200916T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants

* kevin faborg
* paul pfrazee
* nina breznik
* alexander praetorius (serapath)
* cblgh
* frando
* diego

## Action items

* add a new member from a new organization: Joe Werle from Little Core Labs, using hyper stack with USAF, NYC Police Foundation, and other projects
* next facilitator

## Next Agenda items

## Agenda Items


## Notes
### Intros
- nina: is part of the datdot team (part of playproject) working on decentralized storage solution for hypercore protocol.
  - have way through, hopefully starting the testnet soon, to connect all the peers and track who gives/takes space
  - it's a marketplace and uses substrate framework to build a minimal standalone blockchain
  - hyperprotocol is used to host/share data and the tracking is happening on the chain
  - it's modular and communities can use it to run their own chains
- paul: working on beaker browser (p2p web browser using hypercore technology) to make a web platform
  - do all you can do on the web now but better
  - privacy when your data local
  - moderation to have everything you love about the web without the bad stuff
- diego: :wave: plans to release first beta of [hypergraph](https://github.com/hypergraph-xyz/desktop) and [p2pcommons/sdk](https://github.com/p2pcommons/sdk-js) in september (internanlly using things like corestore, corestore-networker, hyperdrives) with [Liberate Science](https://www.libscie.org/)
  - also works on another project for GEUT (in collaboration with libserate science) to host and seed hyperdrives
  - planning to share some articles about it too :v:
- frando: works on a project called sonar.
  - uses hypercores for a data storage engine coupled to a full text search engine and other soon
  - basic idea: indexing for meta data for files
  - also working on dat rust implementation and got a grant recently
- kevin: works on ara blocks, a project making a distribution platform for creators to connect directly with their fans
  - cutting out platforms like youtube, etc..
  - having a desktop version
  - using hyperstack to make archive and set a price in ara token (using ethereum)
  - others can join the swarm and receive what they bought
  - ara token is being put on exchanges to trade the tokens with other tokens/currencies, like ETH, etc...
- cblgh: working on a commons-oriented p2p group chat: Cabal

### Adding a member
- kevin: talking about the next topic which is about membership and voting rules so the consortium can make decisions
  - on how to spend funds
  - and generally acts like a more formal organisation to have and spend budget
  - this includes the process for having new members and removing existing members under certain conditions
- nina: opens the question for her what the membership is giving (what's behind that), what does it mean?
- kevin: it's formeost a way to vote and decide on how to spend budget
- cblgh: agree with what nina said. most important thing to figure out: _why_, what is the purpose of the consortium
   - there seems to not be a lot of cohesion in the current set of people of the consortium (informal membership or not)
   - its greatest value at the moment: its a place to talk and exchange thoughts
- frando: i agree with what was said.
   - suggests to differentiate between 2 groups (1. dat consortium, 2. dat foundation collective hosted by open collective)
   - the latter (dat foundation collective) needs a more formal list of members who decide how to spend
   - proposal: the dat consortium should keep the process similar to how it is at the moment
     - a member needs to suggest new members in order for them to join (e.g. like people with interesting hyperstack based projects)
     - existing members would select/vote/agree
     - suggests a new defined process for a new sub group (steering committee?) to decide about open collective?
- kevin: asks for thoughts from others about splitting this group, especially given that there is already the comm-comm meeting
  - wonders if it's a good idea to split the consortium group into two groups is a good idea
- nina: suggests that we first list everyones thoughts about what they think the purpose of this group should become
  - initially the consortium was meant to talk about the hypercore-protocol
  - will it be now rather be for collecting new funds or will projects who participate rather look for their own funds?
  - so far the money that was there was not voted on by the consortium
  - also how much funds are there? is it 2-3k like was said by mauve and keving recently or is it 20-25k like said by robinson?
- paul: its hard to say what the group is for, because people work on different projects who will release at some point
  - in the future there is coordination need
  - consortium is about setting up infrastructure for when the need for more coordination arrives
- kevin:
  - there is also the twitter account and the github organisations and repos like the dat-cli
  - a group to make decisions about those is important
  - also a group to help with facilitating/organising events is important
  - each of the projects otherwise have their own source of funding
  - but if grants are received by the dat consortium, the consortium would decide about it
- diego:
  - there is a need for some top level organisation
    - for example, if members work on a project and want to release, that might require some requirements and coordination and can create new needs also (performance improvements at the many levels of foundational modules, security, better docs, etc)
    - so the consortium can be used to coordinate
    - e.g.: we were working with wireline and used a lot of internal modules, but we needed to coordinate with the community
    - sometimes companies need to work with organisations and need a clear place to talk/coordinate
    - with lots of people involved its also a good thing to have a process to facilitate decision making
- frando:
  - i would like to see the group to tackle "community resources" (e.g. dat foundation website) which are a bit outdated
  - format of the website isn't the best currently
  - we need a shared place where people/projects can share what they are doing
  - a place to gather conference talks, articles and other resources (e.g. old dat whitepaper, how-dat-works, ...)
  - also to decide about funds
  - also to help organise events
  - maybe support some kind of physical meetup
  - help projects with grants/sponsorship
  - helping to plan "shared community activities) e.g. hackathons (e.g. last year with cabal/cobox folks)
  - also sometimes some technical discussions could be made - but might need coordination with hypercore-protocol people
- cblgh:
  - community seems a bit scattered in general and it didn't really recover
  - it would be great to find a purpose for this and work on uniting the community a bit more again
  - should make this a mailing list concern as it involves more people than in this meeting
- nina:
  - consortium could be seen as:
    - coordination between projects (founders of member projects) vs. comm-comm being more open to the public
    - join forces to make coordination more efficient (blog/twitter/hackathons/etc...)
    - sharing costs for certain work (e.g. events, better docs, better logs for debuggin, ...) as projects
    - campaigning together to find sponsors to cover costs, again: (e.g. for events, ...)

### general comments
- frando:
  - what if we set up the website in a more "wiki" way and use some of the remaining funds for that
  - open collective could be used for member projects to fund this
  - has been done in the past for some tasks
- kevin:
  - has anyone objects to adding joe werle to the consortium?
- pfrazee:
  - +1 adding
  - but also adding a formal process for how members are added first
- frando:
  - +1 adding
- serapath
  - +1 adding
  - +1 for making the formal process
- frando:
  - Proposal: making a proposal on mailinglists
  - if 2 weeks nobody objects its fine
  - if somebody objects, then make it a topic in the next consortium
  - if that fails, we might need voting or mediation or something to resolve the issues
  - but having not voting but mailinglist with possible objects the default makes it smoother
- paul:
  - +1 involving the mailinglist
  - but who is on the mailinglist right now?
- nina:
  - martin last time sent a list from karissa which contains a list who are on the mailinglist (~20 people)
- kevin:
  - if somebody is on the mailinglist, does it mean they are in the consortium
- nina:
  - there seem to be 29 people on the mailinglist
- kevin:
  - is the calendar invite the same as the mailinglist
- paul:
  - thinks the mailinglist is fine, but some people are on there who seem to be inactive now
- nina:
  - who is D H?
  - who is Jessica?
- ???: D H is Dan Hassan from Cobox
- frando:
  - some people have been on the list since the beginning and are still interested but are currently inactive
  - maybe people can be on the list without being in the calls
  - maybe they can still raise objections
- paul:
  - there is no huge risk in underspecifying initially who is member
- nina:
  - do people agree on my proposal: https://hackmd.io/N2dFrSfxQbSP1nD94WC6RA
- paul:
  - there is no real problem with adding joe werle
  - but the question is, what is the purpose of the group?
  - like: what if you are not showing up regularly - do you still stay in the group and can vote?
- nina:
  - proposal: membership is maybe about: seniority, contributions, monetary/other, etc...
  - but how to make it not an administrative nightmare?
- paul:
  - agree, but lets avoid administration nightmares
- frando:
  - send a mail on the mailinglist and ask who wants to be part of a list of the dat consortium and show up regularily more or less and "vote" if needed as last resort
  - being added/removed if nobody objects otherwise we talk as a low profile process
  - not being part of the consortium list doesn't mean to leave the mailing list or be disallowed from conversations, the list can involve some more people who follow in the background, same procedure of adding new members as above
- paul:
  - +1 to frandos proposal
  - next meeting we spec out the group and define it
  - then send it to the mailinglist and ask who wants to be part of it
  - then we establish the group
- serapath:
  - would suggest to add a binding tool for each part of the process/rules we make
- nina:
  - lets use the next consortium to spec out the rules together
- nina:
  - proposal to set up a chat where we can keep in touch all the time
- kevin:
  - +1, i like to suggest telegram
  - who wants to be the next facilitator
- nina:
  - i would be the next facilitator
- nina:
  - can you make a discord group chat?
- serapath:
  - +1 telegram
- paul:
  - i don't have telegram, but no issue getting on it
- nina:
  - i can volunteer to make a discord group chat, and if it doesnt work out, we can make it on telegram
- frando:
  - +1 for making the chat, but keep the mailinglist as the primary tool at least for now
- kevin:
  - hopes to have the chat more chatty and lively
  - mailinglist is more formal for announcements
