# Dat Consortium Meeting 15

Wed 2020-05-27, 7pm Berlin time _[→ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_



## Participants

 - drobinson
 - pfrazee
 - nettle
 - serapath
 - ninabreznik
 - martin heidegger
 - kevin faaborg
 - mafintosh

## Action item review

## Discussion

- Danielle talks about grants and fiscal sponsorship
-  what CS&S does
    -  Hold funds in a cost center to be spent as approved by adviisory committee
-  what other fiscal sponsors exist
    -  OpenSource Collective
        -  Great to transparent payments, can recieve grants, great people

- "Rebranding" of Dat from CLI to community ecosystem

- Dat Event 2020:
     - _Updates:_
         - Homepage has been updated → https://events.dat.foundation/2020/
         - We are collaborating with open2020 about BigBlueButton expertise.
         - Diego will send out Newsletter this week.
     - _Polls:_
         - Should we change the name? If yes: Proposals?
         - What style do you prefer for design: "Geeky community" / "Technical open source event" / "Dat StyleGuide style"
     - _Requests:_
         - We hope to receive a proposal from all member-organizations of this group? → https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSed1kHTAqgN7DvttNCEk8_BzuQvrqS3-eEJoCWS-T7wu5DqGw/viewform
         - Please share the CfP!
         - Who is the contact for CoC violations?

## Notes

 - Danielle explained the structure of CS&S and how projects work within it
     - CS&S handles the 501c3 work, charity registrations, infra for US-based FT employees, working with laywers to defend IP/copyright/trademark
     - Takes a cut of overhead to cover CS&S work (15%)
     - Works best when there's a clear structure for governance
     - CS&S is not particularly good for crowdfunding or taking USG grants
     - Dat in the future:
         - need a lead a leadership agreement
         - preferably has external advisors
 - Started Q&A, answers inlined below

### Q&A Danielle

_Martin:_
- What is the current relationship of the dat foundation and CS&S "on paper"?
- How does CS&S intend to benefit from this group?
- What do you need in the next step for dat?

_Franz_

* What are the current funds of Dat at CS&S, and what is the procedure to access the funds?
    * Current funds: leftover money from a 2018 grant, don't know how much it is (maybe btwn 20-30k)
    * Procedure for access: governing body for the non-profit which approves the spending decisions. People send an invoice, the governing body (advisory committee) approves, it gets paid
* What has CS&S to offer to a "restarted" Dat foundation? E.g. are there time budgets for grant proposal review that you would provide?
    * Theres Danielle, Jess, Joe who'd you work with
    * No fixed hours atm
    * At least one monthly call with governing body to talk strategy is possible. Pretty high touch.
    *
* What are the obligations of a "restarted" Dat foundation (and its advisory committee) towards CS&S?
* Can the Dat foundation at CS&S switch easily between a more dormant and more active state? E.g. no money flow for a year, then a bigger grant the next.
    * As part of the fiscal-sponsor agreement, there's a requirement to keep a minimal amount of funding in CS&S. This is to avoid zombie projects which still are an obligation for CS&S (ie protecting IP).
    * https://www.notion.so/css/Becoming-a-CS-S-Project-4181882e645a4699b2eca1a8805b31c3
    * "Projects must receive a minimum of $25,000 in annual revenues during the fiscal year, resulting in a minimum annual FSP administrative fee of at least $3,750."
    * To transfer out of CS&S, a non-profit entity would need to exist which receives the funds. (That entity could be eg Open Collective.)

_Paul_

* How is copyright/IP managed by CS&S?
    * CS&S holds the copyright/IP of the projects it administers
    * If transferring away from CS&S, another entity would need to exist to transfer the IP
    * Unsure how things wou things wouddd
    * Moving stuff into Public Domain might be an option, would have to talk to lawyers likely to be sure what consequences are
    * OpenCollective e.g. doesnt handle IP
    * Also have to look into what previous agreements were made with funders to not do something that would be against past agreements







