# Dat Consortium Meeting 6

Wed 2020-01-08, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Attending

- @RangerMauve
- @dpaez
- @serapath
- @okdistribute
- @zootella
- @kira
- @pfrazee
- @andrewosh
- @sammacbeth
- @frando
- @mafintosh

## Agenda

- Catch up
- Talk about the Dat Event
- Need someone to write down a facilitation format and timing for meetings, could including working with changeset.nyc & compensation via open collective
- Soliciting feedback about new website https://dat.foundation/
- Who will facilitate the next meeting?

## Next Agenda

- Revisit membership talk
- Talk about events
- Figure out dat desktop (& cli)
- Talk about other impls?

## Actions

- Mauve: Write down current facilitation process
- Karissa / Diego: Figure out how to facilitate next call

## Transcript

### Updates

- Mauve: Dat foundation is out, it's not broken. Finished up and released hyperswarm-web. Working on demo to use it - a chat app. It'll show how to use hyperswarm in node, and use the same code with hyperswarm-web in the browser
- Karissa: With the website updates, also put in kappa-core workshop which has a chat example, I think nettle updated it to new hypercore, might be using discovery swarm or hyperswarm. There's a chat example there in the docs, maybe you could fold your examples into that.
- mauve: Does the example work in the browser?
- Kira: It's using hypercore 8, so it still has some issues. You could downgrade to hypercore 7
- Mauve: Well, I'll look into that, thank you.
- Karissa: Didn't do anything other than the website.
- pfrazee: Good break, hung out at CCC, got to share a lot with what was going on with the SSB crowd, they were really enthusiastic about it. Been upstreaming improvements from hyperdrive and hyperdrive-daemon into Beaker, getting really good performance - been working on a link aggregator application, like reddit - scanning the filesystem with no secondary indexes or anything, got a 100 test users, generating a hundred posts each, loads in less than a second, just about every view. Is pretty good for not using any precomputed indexes. From here we'll look at secondary indexing strategies, but it sounds like this will perform well. Really encouraging, gonna keep cranking things like that for the month.
- Andrew: Paul has been staying with me for a couple of months, been really fun, got to work in person, a lot of stuff in Beaker is good for testing performance, optimizing those has been productive and getting perf boosts has been good- stuff like including stats along with file names for readdir. Getting back into things post-vacation. Working on last remaining mac-fuse issues, think we're pretty close. Published something with a beta tag, getting close to a beta release.
- Diego: Working on hyperdrive-promise, helps keep things up to date. Learned about all the things hyperdrive has. Continuing with the p2p commons SDK.
- Kevin: Ara's desktop app - the Ara file manager, is now on the mainnet. You can install the new version and use it with real Etherium tokens and real Ara tokens.
- Kira: I didn't do a ton over the holidays, trying to get encryption working on Mapeo, it does some stuff outside of hypercore around handshakes and media sync, we couldn't use hypercore on it's own. Wrote a module called chacha-stream which can be used to encrypt everything, not just hypercore data. Looking at using noise to get forward-secrecy.
- Sam: Planning to push out the dat extension to the release version of Cliqz in the coming weeks. Speaking at FOSSDEM at the beginning of Feb about Dat in the browser. Another thing I did recently is update dat-fox, the extension for Firefox. Updated the node process to use the same underlying module as dat-webext. Using the same dat stack with the two extensions. Playing with using Dat2 in sams-dat-api, seeing if it syncs with hyperdrive daemon. Parked since it won't work in the browser yet, will wait until the required crypto stuff is implemented in the browser.
- Alex (Serapath): Happy new year! We, Nina and a bunch of others, are still in Asia doing a code camp over the holidays, continuing until the end of January. Traching people how to code. Making progress on datdot, stuff is running but we found a problem wih the architecture. Problem with how people are pinning and seeding hypercores. Using libsodium to reencrypt hypercores so people who store them provide a merkle tree that's unique to them. Becuase libsodium uses elliptic curves, and have a shared secret, if somebody stores it they can decrypt / reencrypt the data. We were hoping to decrypt but not encrypt, so that they can store the encrypted version but not be able to encrypt a new version. Investigating a different option which is better. Asymetric crypto takes a lot of time and adds to size, thinking of using compression. Compressing would be expensive, but decompressing would be cheap. Compression algos can have different params, can make it take a long time, everybody that seeds a hypercore has different params. You can always decompress but the version is always different. Then can use a merkle tree over that and it'd be unique for everyone.
- Frando: The major thing for us was CCC between xmas and new years, we did a presentation on where we are with Sonar and where we want to go with it. There were people there that were interested in this stuff. Working on kappa-core, getting the general stack in a better shape. It was great meeting some of you at the CCC conference. Talked to Paul about future steps for PeerSockets and other ideas. Getting back to work on these. Looking forward to planning a Dat event in EU.

### Going over agenda

- Mauve: Last time we mentioned we wanted to actually talk about the Dat event. Also, we had a conversation about membership, it might be good to look at it again. I propose tabling that since there's a lot of other stuff and I don't think we caught up on the discussion.
- Karissa: wanted to point out that we got money from OpenCollective that could pay for a consultant that'd help figure out bylaws and stuff like that. Changeset NYC did stuff for the python foundation, processing, bunch of other JS stuff as well. They're really chill and reasonably priced. It'd be nice to get them to consult on this, a lot of times it's boilerplate, they can help facilitate these discussions. Going to have a preliminary discussion with them in the next couple of weeks. A couple of you were CC'd on a thread, if you weren't and you want to be involved, feel free to contact me.

### Dat Event

- Karissa: We're slated to meet every two weeks, I was figuring at least once a month a meeting could be focused on the event. I think there's lot6s of folks in Europe and there's a lot of conferences in the summer that we could piggyback on. We should try to find a conference we're all planning to attend and tack on a couple of days before or after and rent a space where we can all hang out / hack, maybe just a night. I'd like to float that as an initial idea and ask what other ideas peope have / want.
- Mauve: Was wondering if we could go down the list and ask who wants to be actively involved?
- Diego: I don't know how I can help, since it's remote, Geut is based in Argentina, but of course we want to help.
- Karissa: If you're a project manager, this is pretty similar.
- Kira: I don't know what it is, so I'd like to read about it.
- Karissa: We don't have anything yet, it's mostly thinking about it.
- Kira: Cool, potentially.
- Paul: Happy to help in any way I can.
- Andrew: +1, definately happy to help
- Sam: Happy to help, we've done meetups in Munich, if there was something Munich based, we'd be able to contribute space and internet. Might be a bit out of the way for other Europeans up north.
- Alex: Yeah, sure. We usually organize a lot of smaller events, right now we're doing the 1 month conference. Because of travelling it depends on where, we could see if we could move somewhere in order to plan the event.
- Mauve: Karissa, were there specific things we should talka bout with the event or specific things people could help with.
- Karissa: I'd like to use a side channel, or maybe make most of the next meeting be about the event.
- Mauve: So we should talk through email?
- Karissa: Are people okay to do that more next call?
- * a bunch of +1s in the comments *

### Feedback about the new website / Paying people for work

- Mauve: We made a new version of the Dat foundation website, funded by MOSS, Gina lead the way on that and other folks finished it up and released it. It's out now, there's some stuff on there, it'd be good to get feedback on what's missing or what's good.
- Diego: I've seen it, it's good. There's lots of info there, using some of the work to show the community section. It'd be nice in the future to improve the styling, maybe we can reorganize the content. There's a lot of content now, not exactly sure how to do that. All in all it's a good update.
- Mauve: I guess it's not super obvious how to modify it which is good insight.
- Frando: I like that the projects working with Dat are much more visible. There's still some confusion about the website / docs site / datprotocol site which is barebones, I think there was some other place. Maybe integrating some of them or making the links clearer would be nice. The header navigation in the docs website is similar to the main website, maybe that can be simpler. I'd like to look into how the website is done some more, to be able to contribute. This Vuepress thing, I wanted to look into that anyway. As Diego said, the styling could be improved, I don't find the header in particularly beautiful. Not sure if we need a grant, it's like 2 hours of CSS. It could be done through CSS.
- Mauve: Speaking of grants and funding 2 hours of CSS, is this something we could fund through the open collective?
- Karissa: Yeah, totally. The opencollective has like 2k, this is exactly the sort of thing it'd be good to pay through it. It doesn't have to be a star developer, it could be someone that just wants to contirbute. SSB does something similar where they give 100 bucks, in some ways it's not a lot of money, but it's like a token of appreciation. I kinda like that, giving less than 250 dollars, but saying thanks.
- Mauve: Should we figure out a process where people can propose small bits of work and figure out who approves that? Could it be a quick vote in the COnsortium meeting?
- Karissa: Exactly, this is membership stuff. I can talk about how we've done it in the past. There's the Board / Leadership team: Me, Joe, Mathias, Danielle. What we do is approve invoices to the Open Collective, that's basically the only power vested there. That could be extended to more people, but I think right now that's how it'd work. I think anyone can send an invoice through Open Collective, it doesn't have to have much run-around. If someone finds someone that wants to help or do this, just reach out to one of us or during the meeting and we'll just approve it.
- Sam: Comment about the site: The new one is not on Dat and the old one was. It'd be nice if as many of our things as possible were on Dat. I could set it up - I use a CI setup for my blog that autopublishes to Dat from github, we could use the same setup.
- Mauve: That'd be awesome, do you have time for that?
- Sam: Tentitively, I could do that. Not sure how soon, but I have a prototype that'd be a CLI for doing the publishing.
- Alex: Every project has a tag "community", what is it for?
- mauve: I have no clue what the tags are supposed to be either. I think it's a netlify feature, I have no clue. The projects that have those tags have the because the example projects that were there had them and I added them from the old website. If you feel like they should do something, feel free to do that.
- Karissa: yeah, there's an admin page in vuepress, https://dat.foundation/admin/#/ You can log in with your github account. It's a bit convoluted. Joe knows the most about this. If you open an issue on the repo, Joe is pretty responsive if you tag him. PRs are welcome, there's no active lead on the website.
- Mauve: If you have any ideas, feel free to just go ahead and do it. Or post in the chat and anyone else agrees, just go ahead and do it. If you don't have access to modify something, just ping us and we'll give it to you.
- Krissa: I agree that it'd be cool to update the CSS.
- karissa: Just wanted to say thank you for everyone that put up their names. I wanted to highlight people in the community that are making stuff happen. If you know of anyone else that should be on the website who isnt' we should make that happen.
- Kevin: I agree with Karissa. As a way to get people into Documentation, I think it's a great step forward.
- Kira: I like the new website, happy to see that the Kappa Workshop got added. Was it Karissa? Thanks!
- Mafintosh: I think it's pretty good. Good job whoever is maintaining it.
- Paul: No comments, looking good.
- Andrew: Agree, could be cool to see more featured projects. We'll get there with time.
- Mauve: Do you have any specific projects that should be added?
- Andrew: I was thinking more about spacing in the area, if there were more and we could have a sort of grid. Beyond that, good job.
- Mauve: By the way, the stuff that was marked as featured was either there already when I got to it or was on the old website. So if it feels like something is missing, it's because it wasn't engineered and slapped together, so feel free to change it.
- Alex: I like it.

### Facilitation

- Karissa: Trying to reduce the bus factor of always having one person facilitate. SOmething we do at Digidem is ask who wants to facilitate the next meeting. How do people feel about that?
- Mauve: I'm into it!
- Diego: I could do it, I can offer my help. The only thing is that I don't know how we handle the meeting notes. I guess you hear the whole thing and write a transcript, maybe someone can host the meeting and someone else can help with the meeting notes? That's my experience from the comm comm meetings. Sometimes I have to do both of these things. It's difficult to ask questions and write all the details and stuff.
- Mauve: Regarding notes, all the meetings are being recorded on the Dat Foundation Zoom account, after the meeting I listen to it at increased speed and write the notes down. Doing it in realtime could be better since fewer people would need to listen to the whole transcript.
- Frando: I can see myself doing it, not this month because I have something around this time. Maybe you could write down somewhere what's invovled in facilitating the meetings.
- Mauve: I think that's part of the thing that Karissa wanted the person from Changeset to do.
- Karissa: Yeah, maybe you could write what you currently do
- Mauve: Gonna add to my TODOs
- Kevin: Probably, up to do meeting, but not sure when, I'd need to know that I can attend
- Kira: I'm okay now
- Karissa: I can facilitate some time, could do the next meeting
- Mathias: At some point, but not in the near future.
- Mauve: Do you need any help on the technical side?
- Mathias: No, don't think so.
- Paul: If you ever need me to, I could.
- Andrew: Same for me
- Sam: I could join the pool of potential facilitators.
- Karissa: Cool, if everyone does it once in the next two years we'll be fine.
- Serapath: I could but I'd like to first see all the steps that are involved.
- Mauve: What I'm hearing is people are intersted, it'd be nice to have a formal process. Diego and Karissa, maybe we can have a meeting, I can write down my process and we can talk more about it.

### Talking about Agenda Items / Final thoughts

- Mauve: Does anyone have suggestions for agenda items?
- Diego: Not from my side
- Karissa: Maybe we can do it like popcorn, just say it if you have it.
- Mauve: Just to go over the existing stuff, we have revisiting membership, and talking about the event
- Paul: I'd like to +1 the event conversation
- Kevin: I'd like to form a group around dat-desktop. Maybe we can talk about the history, will we bring it back, can we get grant funding? What modules could we use.
- Mauve: I'd like to second that and include the CLI, Karissa was looking into the grant applications.
- Karissa: I could do a report in the technical side
- Kevin: I'd love to get involved and help out
- Sam: To add another item, the other dat implementations, the Cxx / Rust ones. None of the people contributing to those are in this group, should we wait for stabilization of Dat 2 or should we contribute
- Mauve: I think Yosh attended at least one of these meetings, maybe we can pester him to attend this meeting.
- Karissa: Regarding CXX, wasn't Paulo or Joseph working on that?
- Pfrazee: Not sure if it's active but still on his mind.
- Mafintosh: Paulo has been talking to me about the CXX implemetnation. More than anything it'd be important to figure out an event to get people together and coordinate the development. Yosh has been working on rust, but it's been a while before it's been updated. It'd be good to find a new contributor

### Next meeting: January 22nd @ same time