# Dat Consortium Meeting 14

Wed 2020-04-29, 7pm Berlin time _[â†’ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants

* Andrew Osheroff
* Diego
* Mauve
* Frando
* Paul Frazee
* Sam Macbeth
* Karissa
* Mathias

## Action item review

* Dat event: Date & CfP
* State of Dat foundation advisory comittee setup

## Discussion

* Dat event: Plan forward, budget, website
* Discussion on dat:// protocol scheme

## Notes

Franz: Overview of agenda. Round of updates.
Andrew: Past few weeks working on adding functionality to cli and daemon tools and network testing. Create doc websites and landing pages with updated descriptions of hyperswarm and hyperdrive-daemon. Improve data export and debugging commands.
Diego: Working on P2P commons SDK, integrating with daemon. Going well.
Karissa: Side project with peer apps, about to get a grant from protocol labs. Trying to launch this year. Doing a report with [Decentralisation off the shelf](decentpatterns.xyz) - targeted at funders to improve the success with protocols. Would like some folks to read the draft in the coming week. Features some projects in this group + ecosystem.
Mauve: Not got too much done. Progress on file transfer app in electron with automatic archive discovery via gossiping with/for Wapikoni. On calls with OurNetworks event planning on how to do the origanisation. Meetings with dweb and redecentralise and ournetworks on how to collaborate and get dat in there as well.
Paul: Bug fixing, UI cleanup, documentation. Added markdown API to beaker. Polishing for the beta.
Sam: good thing: got dat2 working in the browser. bad news: cliqz is shutting down.
Franz: Working on Sonar. Finish first report milestone. Thinking whether to integrate with hyperdrive-daemon or not or run a separate daemon.
Mathias: Focused on getting sodium updated in the stack. Getting Diffie-helmann stuff finished. Talking to libsodium author to help reviewing. Big DHT update since last time.
Franz: No further agenda items proposed. Proceed with dat event then advisory comittee process. Start with dat event.

### Dat event

Franz: Yesterday Diego, Martin and me met to discuss the event. Merged PR to put call online. Date is set as July 30/31 2020. Ready to start spreading the word. Currently handle submissions via github repo on event repository. [CfP link](https://github.com/datproject/public-events/issues/new?assignees=&labels=proposal&template=proposal.md&title=). Deadline is June 1st (in one month). Please think about the sessions you want to do and spread the word to others. We also tried out Mozilla virtual hub, but came to the conclusion that it's nice for experimental hangouts, but not so great for content sessions. For main slots we will focus on big blue button (BBB). Most important thing to plan for now is the website. To plan that properly we talk about funding. This is the main discussion point for now. A good process would be to talk about funding for the conference, how much and where from. Set up a list of what we expect from the website and how the process should work. Try to select someone with time and energy to do the website - preferable someone involved with the community. Martin prepared a note re: budget (https://hackmd.io/K9pnqVHjSXG-QLzWVzwpKg?view). There are some issues with the current websites that need to be fixed - errors etc. Martin will look into it.
Diego: I can add that the budget is just a draft just to kick off the conversation and keep some structure and keep notes in one place.
Franz: We will need some money - developing a website will cost something. A basic site would be a good start, but would be nice to have some interactive parts and expose information from the sessions to help people get into the conference, make it approachable. That would be a budget point. We will have hosting costs for AV infrastructure and thank yous for speakers. Where to get funds? Take from existing funds, or ask for donations, or sponsorship from community companies, or from a wider range. Open for discussion.
Mauve: I can speak to what OurNetworks are doing. They put together a sponsorship packing with different levels. They were a physical conf 'till this year, so levels were tied to physical things (logos, swag etc). This year virtual, so have logos on the website or default avatars in virtual spaces. List of sponsors from the past who will email to ask if they will sponsor again. That's how they do it.
Franz: We were thinking along these lines too. Finalising the budget is the first step, then would finalise sponsorship packages. Alternative is to do open donations, but could mean that we don't get enough money. Makes sense to have sponsorship tiers.
Mauve: On call with conferences they mention that the might to a revenue share with other conferences. Could piggyback of dweb conf's fundraising strategy. Their budget is probably ginormous.
Franz: No more feedback, not sure how to proceed. We need to start with the website nowish. We can bet that we get enough sponsorship or is there backup funds in dat foundation that can be used for payments before other funds arrive. Other ideas? Also feedback on the plan would be nice for the events group.
Karissa: Speaking from experience with website design, might be abitious to manage that work in a short time frame. The budget for the remaining dat foundation money hasn't been allocated yet, around 30,000USD, not much. Maybe try with a minimal website.
Franz: What is the conclusion about managing creation of a website?
Karissa: Depends on the scope. Could just add simple changes to existing website which would be free. But if you want to spend 5k on a coder to build it, got to provide input and management. Spending money also means more work for us.
Franz: True. Not sure if it should be super fancy or designed. Thought we could get someone from this circle who knows what needs to be done and coule be somewhere between the two approaches.
Karissa: Scuttlebut does this, $50 per hour for community work.
Franz: Any more thoughts?
Sam: site simple to start with. thight deadlines, could be tricky to manage. regarding sponsorship, targets? how much money? Any input on that?
Franz: not sure yet, draft is quite new. We need to think a bit more into that. No fixed plan yet.
Paul: I suggest that we don't have much resources. We are a group of teams donating time, and also don't have much money. Maybe we shouldn't think on a par of big confs like OurNetworks and think more like a meetup and scope things down. Reduce the amount of complexity.
Franz: Agree. We still need a little bit of money, but I think we can get it together. Scaling down the website will help with that. We will discuss in the next events meeting.
Diego: When we mention sponsorship our main intention is to include the other players. Just a way to say this is us doing this, do you want to be a part somehow. For a company giving money is the easy way. Sounds fancy, but just a way to build a bridge.
Karissa: Maybe now switch to action items. Anyone in organisation would be interesting in contributing to the event. If it's helpful we could give suggestions on how to do that. If anyone has connections to companies using the tech, $.
Franz: That's what we said in the last meeting. We will provide a overview of what we need the money for and ask companies if they can contribute and people can try to push to others.
Karissa: If not many chip in we can do more meetup style, otherwise could be more elaborate. Foundation could chip in $500. That's what we did last year.
Mathias: What do we need money for for virtual conf.
Franz: AV infrastructure, website setup, thank you for session runners.
Mathias: Taking money in donations to give donations doesn't seem like a good idea. ...
Franz: More comments? No. We will take feedback to events group. If anyone wants to join comment on the [github repo](https://github.com/datproject/public-events).

### Foundation advisory commitee

Franz: Any news from CS&S.
Karissa: Email from Joe I haven't resolve. Want to talk to folks there. Might just ask Joe to come to the meeting and talk about it. He said they want to charge us money to make an advisory comittee, so don't seem to make sense. Wants to charge 15% overhead on 30k and must meet revenue (missed all the numbers). We have 30k now so could do it for one year.
Mathias: we should just spend money then.
Karissa: Need to bring Joe in. Doesn't make sense at the moment.
Franz: Did something change? Jess didn't say anything about that. I had the impression that the committee can just sit and do nothing as a silent project. If there is activity (i.e. grants), then CS&S takes their share. Did this change?
Karissa: This is new information for me also. I thought we already paid 15% on grants when they came in. To pay another 15% seems unfair. I want to bring in Joe to explain and give opportunity for people to ask questions. If it doesn't make sense to continue that's an option. Lets get all information before deciding.
Franz: Can you ask Joe to join next meeting?
Karissa: Yes. There are fewer cases of large grants going to foundation. Other projects getting grants direct. Does it still make sense to have the foundation as a non profit. Joe can explain what CS&S offers for this 15%. Giving them feedback will also help form their policies for other projects.
Mathias: Open collective takes 10%.
Franz: But CS&S also helps acquire grants and review proposals.
Karissa: I had a bad experience last year so want more clarity on what they provide. The Mozilla OSS grant with Andrew - they didn't want to give us the money because Joe didn't follow up on the grant. They let the grant fall through. There is a hard conversation to be had.
Franz: Lets invite Joe and talk about it. So far we've just been talking about advisory comittee in the context of CS&S, but we could form a comittee on our own terms which could also help with grants. We should first talk with Joe.
Karissa: I'll invite Joe. Having an advisry committee is good, maybe the consortium is the committee? Getting the 30k would also be good. We could also talk more generally about advisory committee.
Franz: Any further comments.

### Dat protocol scheme

Karissa: Raise a concern. We did a rebrand dat project/protocol 2 years ago. This is becoming cloudy. Want to talk about external perception of that dat protocol is. Chrome and Brave using the protocol but pointing at old code. Want to discussion about what we do about dat protocol scheme.
Franz: comments?
Mauve: One concern is migration to `hyper://`. Could Mathias or Paul talk about that. Do you want to separate from dat branding?
Mathias: Many things here. Technical problem: no dat CLI that can sync with they things we're building now. Challenge of pushing new stuff that doesn't work with the existing tools. Also new and shiny: pushing a new protocol.
Mauve: Are you planning on moving from the dat branding. Will you reference dat anywhere in docs?
Mathias: Not trying to get rid of things. Trying to acknowledge that it doesn't work with dat CLI and push a new thing. Dat has moved to an ecosystem scheme rather than a tool.
Karissa: Understand that the tool isn't great and that there is a ecosystem of projects. It's confusing to new people. Don't want I2P situation there there is a website that's out of date, but people still talking about it. Having clear communication is important at this stage. Also think that updating dat CLI shouldn't be difficult. Wonder if there is something else going on?
Andrew: Part of this is that we want to ensure that there is aplce that talks about the tech benefits of the stack. Some people might have confusion about what parts in the dat stack. Clear messaging around hyper* modules is something we've been thinking about.
Franz: all the other projects apart from beaker and hyperdivision isn't focus on the dat brand. They all have their own projects and we say we have a project based on the dat project. Opens the door for a technical discussion. There is still something in the brand. There is the whitepaper + great documentation that's just a bit out of date. I see two options: 1. Dat is dead. Everything new should be *'we speak hypercore protocol'*. 2. Get together and talk about *'this is dat 2'* and try to update the documentation we have. Explain that this and this is dat 1 and it's out of date. I don't mind if beaker calls the protocol hyper. We should push the dat protocol as a thing rather than giving up on it.
Karissa: Thanks for laying out those options clearly. Concerned about 3rd option is we try to change name like XMPP and it doesn't work/takes a long time.
Franz: We have along of outdate info on the protocol. This can be confusing for people getting into the tech. I think we should discuss this. Of course it's effort to update the docs to dat2, but we could get funding for it and do a documentation sprint. I think there is value in the dat brand. I fear if we don't do anything soonish then it will mostly refer to outdated dat 1 stuff.
Diego: I think that this is a communication problem that can be solved, requires community effort. This affects us. We started with sdk and docs refered to dat:// prefix, and how need to update to hyper://. This has impact on our users.
Karissa: Also want to hightlight with digital democracy. Grant writing and messaging with dat we can point to somewhere to show other people are using the tech. This shows it's reliable and helps get funding. With hyper where can I show funders evidence? I wonder if it's more work to create this hyper stuff or update the current stuff.
Franz: I think we should try to settle this because if Beaker and the hyper protocol handle it is hard to keep up dat at the same time. I think that as an umbrella term and documentation it is a great resource. IF we don't do anything it will become more fragemented.
Karissa: Technically it is still all hypercore protocol. Almost the same code, just Noise added.
Andrew: There are multiple ways to look at it. Like I said about the core technical brand for hyper modules may seem noisy. Not sure how it relates to dat. A new users coming in, if they had one central place to see the things that are technically relevant to the protocol that helps. There is a case that a funder might as what is hypercore and see that there are users, but no technical overview or page that points to the relevate components.
Mauve: I don't agree that renaming things to hyper will help. We already have technical documentation that refers to dat. There's nothing stopping you from writing new docs and call it dat. (breaking up). It's not just a tecnical issue. With hyper stuff if feels like you're creating your own niche where you don't have to take input. It feels that its taking stuff created with grant funding and . It feels like the technical part of dat is being janked from under our feet and I don't think it nessessary.
Paul: A lot has to do with coming to a consensus on what the dat protocol is. We didn't get good agreement on what should be upstream and what the consensus should be. Other projects are splitting into their own protocol and terminology.
Karissa: I've been having conversations with folks in the community and people are using the term dat in public communication. Mapeo, cobox, cabal all converging on using dat.
Paul: I've had this experience over the past year, people were very contentious, conspiracy theories about motivations from hyperdvision
Frando: all this projects that are based on the same tech looks like they don't share the same protocol in the end. reasonable to have differente protocol prefixes. But we have Dat2. Collectevely we can define the dat protocol suite. More or less things are diverging now. At the same time efforts going on how to move this things closer again, profit from other people work. Also like mauve said, a lot of things were created under the dat umbrella/frame. Eg: how-dat-works docs. Really great effort, there needs an update, update is easier than do it all over again. Can we move to this dat protocol suite? make a more coherent experience. even including different protocol handlers.
mauve: the thing is if we want to have dat branding, but the core doesnt care, then we cant have the branding. Fork can be an option if we want (dat) to keep existing.
Looks like core developers have control of the ecosystem. Doesn't seem fair. how can we expect to be able to collaborate with each other? If we can control how the interop works, how can we do it (collab)? how (non core) can get publish access? How do non core can deal with core decissions? Does anyone else feels the same?
Karissa: there diff types of open source archetypes. Not all of them are wide open. There are tradeoffs/choices. It is a difficult situation to be in. when the grant money runs out, this make things difficult like 3years ago (historical context). We can improve how can we communicate with each other so we can keep things going on. We are all in the same team. We need to remember that. I'm open to different ways to keep things forward. For the health of the ecosystem around hypercore protocol. At least on that, it would be important to have clear communication. Important core part of dig dem. Whatever that (form) is, [...] It's confussing where we are now.
Paul: windind back to what diego said, there is value in what the dat ecosystem is. On board with voicing changes. The influence of core dev is complicated. Eg: Last year there were different suggestion on how to update/do things with hypertrie (core modules). So I decided to reach Mathias, and some decissions were made. They've faced many challenges. It was difficult to brind many ideas from the outside to core. Fork is an option, but they (core devs?) dont want that. We want to include.

Frando: This conversation should continue. The success of the overall projects could depend on this. Personally stil think a bit more that sharing docs under the dat term. Use more the "dat umbrella". Just some ideas. Let's continue with this conversation.
Andrew: One point about the fork. We all feel like mathias have the final word of hyper related modules. He was the author of many and has some exp. Tech leader. It could be difficult to include some ideas from the outside witht this model. But, at the same time this model was effective.

Frando: wrap up. Who would facilitate next meeting?
Paul: I can do it.

### Tech talk

skipping for the next time.
