# Dat Consortium Meeting 13

Wed 2020-04-15, 7pm Berlin time _[→ Local time](https://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=7pm&tz=Berlin&)_


## Participants

- Martin Heidegger
- Sam Macbeth
- Paul Frazee
- Frando
- Karissa
- Substack
- Diego

## Action Item Review:

- Event Team Update
- Dat Advisory Commitee Information from @okdistribute
- Martin facilitates meeting

## Dat Event

Yesterday, Diego, Martin & Me talked about the dat event. We had a good meeting.

We discussed the general format of the event and share the thoughts here.

### Date

The CfS for [ournetworks](https://ournetworks.ca) is open and they are in the same space as dat and we had thought to line up with this and proposed that we have two dates, either the last or second-to-last weekend of July.

As it is an online event we think it should work with no issue.

The second topic is the general format of the conference is and how a call-for-action could look like. Within the group we agreed that we are focussing on getting people to talk to each other. So we can provide infrastructure to the community to work. With focus on interactive tools (VR, ...). We focus on this un-event kind of event and how

At the same time we would be calling for recordings, demos that should be shown at the events. By having those demo videos we can take stress out of the conference. In course of the 2day actual event people can better hang-out and talk. We want to send out the "demos" a few days in advance.

We took some time to write down the call-to-action and want to discuss here about it. https://hackmd.io/O42tkvwoQhyRzR_2uz4y9g As soon as we have a date we want to create a PR to publish it.

We evaluated [Big Blue Button](https://bigbluebutton.org/) yesterday.

Important future steps:

- Setting up homepage (tabled until next wee)
- Prepare A/V setup

Paul: Alex W. is a friend has been putting together https://distributed.camp/ and with this I will get some experience and hope

Karissa: About the website?

Frando: We talked only a little bit about the website but wanted to talk about this at the next events group meeting. It should easy the onboarding and should look nice.

We had a little discussion about money and sponsorship. To have a nice setup we want some people to do this properly.

Karissa: That sounds good. Keeping it simple might be good. Using an existing website would be good. I see it as a way to distribute information. It should not create maintenance load.

Franz: I agree we thought to have a little website. for example witht the BigBlueButton we can just embed it into a page.

Sam: This unconf style means basically no pre-announced talks or

Franz: We do have a regular CfP, we would like to send a call to action and we would like to have a schedule with selected sessions out of the pool and at the same time we would provide infra-structure for more spontaneous interactions as it should be easier. We would be looking more for interactive formats. We also want to prepare a special track that loops the videos we received and look a those where people can jump in.

Sam: Sounds good.

Martin: Can we have a vote around the dates?

Franz: Our thoughts yesterday we thought it is good at the end of July. The suggestions would be July 23/24 or 30/31. Which should be achievable and because on Aug 7/9 there is the ournetworks conference and as Ranger Mauve is participating in this we could connect it together.

Karissa: A bit far out, but agreeing with Thursday/Friday

Sam: My prefernece would be that its on a weekday. Linking up with ournetworks is a good idea.

Karissa: I am a bit afraid that this far out in summer as people might not be able to join. Trying to echo the information from some earlier calls that it would be nice to have it earlier so that people can deepdive/workshop on the beta software

Martin:

Alex: No strong opinion either. Would work for me.

Karissa: So July 23/24?

Franz: We bounced it earlier but

Karissa: So end of june?

Martin: I would like to point out

Paul: I don't know if we should let Beakers timeline affect this date.

Karissa: I just was echoing what mathias said about hyperdrive, but it's fine

Martin: We will


## CS&S advisory committee

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jleQIXewKzo4FbO1LZ8t13mUVsLZ5XnSIJCtK-yyL4Q/edit#

Karissa: We need to fill out. Three people at least and at least half the people can't be paid actively at a grant and we have to have at least one call per quarter (every three months). I want to make this more clear.

I want to make sure that people know what people sign up. I also received more information from a few people already.

The advisory committee goes controls the brand.

The good things with the committe is that it will give you a reputation & experience that would be good.

It comes with some responsibility as e.g. code of conduct

It would be important for us to reach out for people that are not necessarily outside this group.

Alex: I want to clarify, and Karissa wanted more people to be interested. Would it be good to have like 8/9 people?

Karissa: Other commitee at the CS&S have more people and if there are only few people it would put more burden on those few people.

A potential grantor would look at the advisory committe and with more faces it gives more reputation and with more folks supporting it becomes.

There has been also the question that how Cs&s can help with grantss. Cs&s have been unclear of that. Not sure why, its unclear. My experience is that when I have a grant they will look at it and give some feedback. They wrote a lot of grants.

Franz: One question I had: It seems quite straightforward to add people later right? Are Karissa, Joe, members of the committee? Do we have other members that are more silent members to be consulted on? So we could do a setup and then ask people later to join.

Karissa: Yes, we can do this later. I want to be a part of the committee but Joe and Danielle would not be part of the advisory committee, working with the committee. When we need help or have a question they would be helping there. Silent members: We could potentially have more people. In a bigger group its good to have more voices. With just a few people you can get easily into a bubble. With more people we can have a more representative view of the world.

This is a totally new process for Cs&s and they are trying to pull us to this process where we are in an awkward position. And with Danielle in  leave they might have been overloaded.

They have hired people to make this process clearer.

Franz: Quick question to paul: Do you

Paul: I have been meaning to see first what the committee is going to be part of it.

Franz: It is just a CV and saying I'm in.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jleQIXewKzo4FbO1LZ8t13mUVsLZ5XnSIJCtK-yyL4Q/edit#

Paul: let me talk to the guys and I will be part of it.

Franz: I don't feel the need for here right now. I think we should just get things rolling.

## Task items

- Send out Event Date proposal and Request for comment on the CfA.
- Franz will be facilitating next meeting.


---

↓↓↓ Technical Discussion ↓↓↓


## Hyper*

Frando:
- discussion about upgrading wire protocol for noise https://github.com/mafintosh/hypercore-protocol/issues/51
- breaking change.. wondering how we move this forward?

Paul: I will raise this with Mathias

Frando: Think about settling a date for the change, in 4 weeks we will release a new major version.. wire protocol breaking change.. so that people can prepare for the change

Paul: I'll bring that up with him

Diego: I wanted to bring up issue: https://github.com/andrewosh/hyperdrive-daemon/issues/41 can we bring this forward?

Paul: Pinging and raise this tomorrow

K: dat cli?

Paul: no hard constraint in being inside or outside daemon. Andrew is the owner and picks what he feels like it is in the daemon or not.. putting it in external tools could be the way to go.

Martin: WebDAV conversation?

Paul: HTTP WebDAV interface? Never been involved in that conversation. I suspect he would prefer that would be in an external tool.

Karissa: (missing)

Martin: Rollout?

Paul: A lot of work done right now is on performance problems. Then the focus would be docs. Then after that put-together websites etc. And we have to have a conversation about the roll-out.

Martin: That sounds like another half-year before it is going to start.

Paul: I like to think that the performance can be nailed down within the next two weeks. We consider beaker to be feature complete.

Karissa: What performance stuff are you coming into?

Paul: It varies... Yesterday we ran into a queries that came back bad and checking if the DHT can handle bad requests proplery. Also quickly establishing if a connection can be enabled. We have a strange issue that it would unsync some feeds. That may become like 10s loads. Mainly dealing with a lot of edge cases. Bugs in the dht, things like that.

Martin: Setting up a test infrastructure and it would be good to have an ongoing test suite?

Paul: Both Mathias and Andre have floated that idea often. ... I would assume for that infrastructure to work we would need to setup the VPS's that can run with it ongoing with

Martin: Karissa maybe: Do you think this could be part of a grant application?

Karissa: Yes, maybe, definitely. We talked a lot about testing at Mapeo. Thinking of ways to work on that better would be ideal. Its going to be hard to get a simple grant for automated testing. I can imagine for example for Mapeo and Cobox to support a in

Martin: What do you think about crowd-funding.

Karissa: Yes, having it as a general tool for testing. With dat being the first one to implement. But if other tools could use that too. It might be possible to focus on a dat:// focussed one but that would be less money.

Martin: might be best to not use docker, but a container/wasm to run the connect set up on the device

Paul: if I had to guess what to test here. Is the DHT activity and we probably need a:
- coordinated server generating test keys for swarm test and replicating over hypercore protocol
- then probably you'd want some coordinator server generating the test sets and collecting the analytics/results
- on test nodes, write some node script, run in the background, and it would check in regularly with the coordinating server

Karissa: mostly need to create the coordinating server, the nodes could run anything if they conform to the api

Martin: yes, C++/Rust/python implementations should be able to run there as well. if we really want to do this for other systems as well such as ssb/ipfs or whatnot, they might have different needs like go or whatever. a lot of this is like cryptocurrency and distributed things

Karissa: community effort could be open-collective or crowd-funded kind-of-thing.

Paul: Is the dat version duable without coordinating with anybody else we have the possibility to update in later stages. Making a dat specific version would work but maybe not more than 2-3 days. And getting it funded later.

Karissa: At least with digidem we have some time alotted for testing and we could contribute.

Paul: Ok, cool.

Martin: ...

(missing notes)

Karissa: It is a really high bar, but to get it work well but what happens when the app is in the background. And how to get it to run in the background. Making a perfect solution.

We could do middle grounds like a template project. With another project that we are familiar with (delta-chat) they rewrote their whole background in rust.

Frando: But delta-chat moved from C.

Karissa: Ther

Frando: For hypercore there are still pieces missing. But the other part then would be hyperswarm but that is still some work.

Karissa: Getting a rust implementation of hyperswarm could be pivotive as it could be a competition to libp2p. If someone were to say that this alternative of libp2p was nice. Not many people want to fund things in node right now. People want a native implementation.

Karissa: I think we could find people. There is a large rust community interested in p2p stuff.

(... missing nodes)

Paul: One more update to share, i have more or less finished the docs for the next beaker: https://beaker-browser.gitbook.io/docs/ and added a capabilities API to create this temporary for passing hyperdrives to iframes.

