# Dat Consortium Meeting 48
📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 2021-Oct-13 Wed
> 10am San Francisco
 1pm New York
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 3pm Buenos Aires
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20201209T10&p1=224&ah=1)


## 👥Participants
* serapath [facilitator]
* diego
* kevin
* nina
* paul
* franz


## 📔Agenda Items
1. [ ] Grant: 
    - quick walk through the tasks 
    - who could do what
2. [ ] Membership:
    - dat-ecosystem joining rules
      - https://hackmd.io/5zL2Qt4_Sv6-_YgY8rJspg
    - new projects / new members? (Telios, )


## 🆕Updates

- Diego: still workin on SHER. Doing some demos, sharing more about the process on twitter (twitter.com/the_sher_app).
- Kevin: Its all about NFTs these days. Halloween themed NFTs
- Nina: Working on the networking part of datdots. Hyperswarm work. Trying out different scenarios. 
- Paul: Being work a lot on atek. Also working on the networking layer. Lots of hyperswarm work. Currently working with libp2p multiplexer and the multistream select module (multiple diff wire over the wire). Also adding some http layer to talk to hyperswarm.
- Franz: buying a house on Germany, lots of manual work these days :construction_worker: Main project right now is [name]. Also more updates on sonar, planning a release soon.

## 📝Notes

### Grant Update
- Tasks: https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/issues/8
- Funds transfered to us!. Remaining funds at the end of the contract should be returned to CS&S (if there is any)
- Tasks can be grouped like this:
    - Transitioning old stuff
        - identify old org and software repos
        - archive and deprecate. Add note with links to new stuff if available/exists.
    - Communication and Engagement
        - Identify audiences (old, historical and new)
        - Identify companies in the ecosystem
        - Identify possible grants or organizations willing to help
        - Survey!
        - Visualization of the ecosystem
        - Tech articles
        - Newsletter
        - Project Interviews (historical/new)
    - Webpage
        - Write mission and vission
        - Historical overview
        - Governance
        - Design and implement website
### Adding more members to the consortium
- spreading the word about the grants task and how that can be benefitial to the whole ecosystem
- what can be good conversation item for the consortium besides grant?


## 📌Action Items
- [ ] grant team: review feedback from consortium 


## 🎖️Next Facilitator🏆
- Nina (then kevin?)
