# Dat Consortium Meeting 45


**2021-08-18**
10am San Francisco
1pm New York
6pm London
7pm Berlin
2pm Buenos Aires
or [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20210721T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants

Alex (@serapath)
Kevin (@zootela),
Diego (@carax),
Nina (@ninabreznik)


## Agenda Items

- Updates
- [Grant from CS&S](https://hackmd.io/d8hgmONGQ3i7bpMXtjaOUg)


## Updates

- Diego: did some work with the grant team (more than 10 hours). Plus having first demos to try out theapp we're are working on with Geut.
- Nina: did some work with the grant team (more than 10 hours). Also spent some time on datdot work. Exploring packaging options.
- Kevin: Organizing community around Ara to get the word out
- Serapath: working on the simulator and other debugging tools


## Notes

Grant team update

Diego:
The link to the first draft of the Grant Proposal (https://hackmd.io/d8hgmONGQ3i7bpMXtjaOUg?both)

Danielle asked to summarize the mission and vision of Dat ecosystem so we've spent some time to write this down (at the beginning of the document)

Proposal is split in 2 parts:
- **transition** from old dat foundation to the dat ecosystem
- **bootstraping** the new dat ecosystem

We created tasks for each of these two main parts and tried to estimate time and budget needed to complete the tasks. We are hoping consortium members will be able to help us complete these tasks.

Danielle is on holidays from next week until the beginning of September, but she sent us some contacts. Either we will work with some of these contacts while she is gone or we will just wait for her to come back and then refine if anything is needed.

When the grant is confirmed, we will start to search for people who would be interested. It would be really great to have community people working on it since they have the most insights.

Kevin:

I can help with reviewing the proposal and the vision.

Diego: Here is the link: https://hackmd.io/@dpaez/HkqgP3cJY

Alex: Then let's do this async. We just need to decide who will be the next facilitator.

Diego: I can be that.

Alex: Great. Then thank you everyone, hope next time we will already have more answers from Danielle and we can start working on the grant.

## Action Items

Follow up from Grant team about the feedback from Danielle


## Next Facilitator
- Diego