# Dat Consortium Meeting 52

**2021-Dec-09 Thu**
📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 2021-Dec-09 Thu
> 10am San Francisco
 1pm New York
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 3pm Buenos Aires
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20211027T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants
- serapath (Facilitator)
- ninabreznik
- pfrazee
- diego (a bit late to the party)

## Agenda Items
- checking in
- renewing dat-ecosystem.org domain
  * ![namecheap domain info](https://imgur.com/jSTfKcy.png)
- running a cabal-discord bridge (Glitch 96 USD ?)
- grant tasks
  * ![grant task listing](https://imgur.com/72qQui2.png)
- **screencast demos of each projects** (what serapath did for datdot)
- discussing business models
- news/trends sharing (what's new or what did you learn in the past 2 weeks)


### Checking in

Paul: works on a process-isolation + VM sandboxing module (JS & WASM isolates) for smart contracts without blockchains.

Diego: Working on getting beta release out, to get feedback from artists.

Nina: nina started working on grant tasks while Alex is designing some internal parts of datdot.
Nina: working on [task](). Also had a call with a designer about dat tasks and it looks like is also interested in dat/hyper so it may become a new `seed` project of the garden/ecosystem.

Alex: Working on a wallet/vault. The idea was that you could restore all the hypercores and other keys from the main root keypair. Trying to come up with some standards. It's about managing keypairs, confirming/signing transactions and restoring keys from the seedphrase.

Diego: Mauve did something similar for restoring keys. https://github.com/RangerMauve/hyperdrive-publisher#readme

## Notes

- dat-ecosystem.org domain needs to be renewed (Nina will notify everyone so we can vote on this and then renew it with OC funds, Paul says someone can pay and then send a request for reimbursement to OC)

- there is also Grant tasks that need to be finished by Dec 15th. Diego will notify everyone who is responsible for first batch of tasks. Nina already started working on Copywriting for Dat ecosystem as a garden and Organizational structure and governance.

### Screencasts of each project


### Business model
 - a little discussion round to see how Atek and DatDot could potencially collaborate. Next time we should also see how Sher is doing things and fitting in.

![](https://i.imgur.com/9PbyEsd.png)

![](https://i.imgur.com/MDuuHLO.png)

### News in the space

Paul: News - web3 is going strong, but a lot of people are not into crypto scene, things are moving very fast. In Ethereum for example there is a lot of centralization through Infura. Also, there is the NFT scene with lots of criticism, but there is more about it that people are not aware of. Anti web3 sentiments - it's important to know it's a double edge sward

Nina: Does anyone know what is the situation with Hypercore protocol and their funding/investment. 

Paul: Their approach is that their technology is staying MIT licenced. They have the investment, but they didn't share yet what is their plan. 

### Action item:
* [x] talk about the domain renewal
* [ ] who has access to Open Collective, who needs to vote


## Next Facilitator: 
Diego :ghost: 
