# Dat Consortium Meeting 51

**2021-Nov-24 Wed**
📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 2021-Nov-24 Wed
> 10am San Francisco
 1pm New York
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 3pm Buenos Aires
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Dat&iso=20211027T10&p1=224&ah=1)

## Participants

- pfrazee (Facilitator)
- nina
- alex (serapath)
- diego
- kevin

## Agenda Items

- checking in
- discussing business models 
- news/trends sharing (what's new or what did you learn in the past 2 weeks)
- screencast demos of each projects (what serapath did for datdot)

## Notes

### Checking in
- Paul: Agenda above + check ins
- Diego: Working hard on beta release of Sher (aiming for beginning of December). It is a beta so we would like to show where we are and get a feedback. Working hard & learning a lot. Also working on a video explainer and terms & conditions
- Nina: working on connecting more with polka dot community. Join builders program (substrate, connect projects with each other, funding help). Main goal: show other projects on substrate how they can use our service when its ready. Trying to get more funding. They are willing to support. Lots of management tasks!
- Serapath: pair programming with Nina - refactoring the code with 2 new modules: task scheduler and a resource manager (something similar to nano resouce manager by Mafintosh). Aiming to finish the current milestone by the end of the year.
- Paul: Finished out a module trying out autobase Dropbox-ish proof of concept. Exploration was successful. The other thing I was doing was to explore smart contract approach on top of Hypercore protocol.Writing some documentation & doing research. Looking at verification and trust issues at the moment.
- Kevin: Just launched a staking pool https://app.rad.live/. Contracting with Blaze company who are setting this up for us. Also working on making community become more involved.

### Blog post

- Paul: post went out.Any thoughts on this?
- Nina: we could post this article also as a real blog post on Dat ecosystem blog
- Diego: I can take a look. 
- Serapath: There was a transition from Ghost to Github pages.You probably have to clone it and run a build once you make a new post.
- Diego: I'll take a look.
- blog repo: https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/blog

### General updates

- Serapath: I just added a channel for Telios on Discord since they are around for a while. I should have asked the consortium before, so I hope everyone is ok with that. I also reached out to Ink & Switch and invite them to the Discord. Also, Andrew Osh made a new announcements channel & I synced it to Dat ecosystem discord (Hypercore protocol channel - before Hyper Division channel)
- Paul: Adding Telios is fine with me.
- Nina: Also ok with me.
- Diego: :+1:
- Serapath: Made another channel Jobs/Gigs etc. so people can post if they need contractors. We at DatDot are currently looking for a Designer & Rust/Substrate person.
- 

### Screencasts of each project

- Serapath: My idea was so make a short presentation (3-5min summary video of how the project is using hypercore) of every project that has a channel on Discord. I did it for DatDot and would hope each project would make one
- Paul: Sometimes a project is not in the state of sharing in that sense yet
- Nina: Yeah, how can we deal with that situations, was the idea to make this presentation only for well defined projects?
- Serapath: I thought it's easy to make a little screencast and share where the project is at. We are all projects that are work-in-progress, so no one expects super defined product presentations.
- Paul: At some point I could see myself doing it, but at the moment I have to make things clear for myself first. I could do some overall how-to showcase examples.
- Serapath: This would be also cool, to share how to do Multiwriter project etc. In the Ethereum ecosystem I noticed a lot of projects presenting and pretending they are doing something, but behind it's just an idea, nothing tangible yet.
- Paul: We could maybe postpone that until we really need it.

### News in the space

### Business model

- Paul: Any interest in this topic?
- Serapath: We are hoping to make a token that represents how much storage a peer over certain time gave and how much they received. So we basically want to record the balance to show how much 'favor' someone made or how much 'favor' they could ask for in return for their help in the past. And this would be represented with tokens and these tokens could then be exchanged for other tokens or for fiat.
- Paul: Usage of tokens is something I was looking at when I was looking at smart contracts on hyper. I was wondering how useful is to use tokens to build trust between people (same as you at DatDot). I was thinking to maybe limit how much tokens someone can use in the system... so all in the context of trust.
- Serapath: What comes to mind is Riple and Hypercore as technology feels something you could build these things on top of. We got the grant from Web3 foundation and they support us to build this system on top of Substrate but we hope our system can later will be reused on top of Hyper too.
- Paul: It's great to explore the relationship between Hypercore and blockchains. About the tokens - let's each explore our perspectives but in general I am noticing it has a lot to do with reputation and tracking that.
- Serapath: How we are thinking about it currently is to use chain to select random nodes to do the checks on who is seeding data.
- Paul: How do you verify proofs? Do you have miners?
- Serapath: What Substrate gives us is concensus mechanism we can use out of the box. We will go with proof of stake. Nodes are randomly selected and they do the verification and send the results as a transaction to the chain.
- Paul: You are taking the advantage of Substrate's proof of stake mechanism. What I would like to explore is if we can make a non global system for building trust.
- Serapath: I love your thinking and what you already did in the past with NVM so I love your approach more and hope we could use it in the future. But for now it's a compromise because of our funding.

## Next Facilitator: 
- Alex! :trophy: 
