# Dat Consortium Meeting 54

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-Jan-25 Thu**
> 10am San Francisco
 1pm New York
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 3pm Buenos Aires
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/)

## Participants
- diego
- pfrazee
- serapath (facilitator)
- ninabreznik
- kevin


## Agenda Items
- [ ] 0. who would take notes today
- [ ] 1. checking in
- [ ] 2. **previous action items**
    - [x] (Nina): prepare invoice for glitch hosting for cabal-discord bot
       - [x] ~ping cblgh about the discord/cabal glitch~~
    - [x] (Nina): prepare invoice for domain renewal
    - [x] (Nina): prepare invoice for done tasks
    - [ ] (???): who has access to Open Collective, who needs to vote
        - [ ] who has access to Open Collective 
        - [ ] who needs to vote on stuff
    - [x] (???): transition old dat domains to dat-ecosystem namecheap
        - => bring it up after the dat CS&S grant is done
    - [x] dat-dns, dat-sdk
        - => nina pins martin & mauve
- [ ] 3. talk about potential handshake grant
- [ ] 4. **grant tasks needs to be reviewed**
    - [ ] [transition & archiving](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/projects/1)
        - [ ] open question: what do we do with dat-dns and dat-sdk => transition to maintainers?
        - [ ] show updated page on dat.foundation/datproject.org
    - [ ] [community hub/website](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/projects/3)
- [ ] tasks that need to be worked on: 
    - [ ] [communication and engagement](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/projects/2)
        - [ ] let's review them again (specially technical writing, survey etc.)
- [ ] 5. misc (=always on)
    - [ ] discussing business models
    - [ ] news/trends sharing (what's new or what did you learn in the past 2 weeks)
- [ ] 6. who will be next facilitator

## NOTES

### 0. who would take notes today
ninabreznik

### 1. Checking in
- ninabreznik
    1. polkadot treasury confirmed 104k USD grant for datdot :tada:
    2. doing dat-ecosystem tasks
- diego
    1.Updates and new release on Sher project (on Feb3, we are aiming to release beta) 
- Kevin
    1. Interviewing artists for NFT stuff
    2. organizing Ara docs into Gitbook
- Paul
    1. Vitra white paper got released
    2. Blogging activities lately (Vitalik from Ethereum just retweeted me) New post: "the rules to make the rules" (?)
- Serapath
    1. Also working on the grant proposal
    2. Did the interviews with the new designers
- cblgh
    1. 

### 2. previous action items
- nina: only thing left is what to do with domains. Got response frmo Joe. They cannot transfer domain to us because we are not a 501c org (intelectual property issue). Do we want to update content on old domains? Get back to Joe with an answer.
- nina: in summary transitioning and archiving is almost done. Figure it out invoices. Glitch and domain invoices. How do OC invoices work? What do we need to create the invoices.
- paul: about invoices; like any other contract arrangements. 
- nina: maybe easier to do it through the company
- paul: just upload the invoice
- paul: there are admins on OC to approve invoices. We are all admins.
- nina: OK, maybe we can take 1 extra step and ask if someone else (other grant member) can release/approve the fund.
-  

### 3. talk about potential handshake grant

>Hi All, 

>We are glad to update DNS on our end or we can update the name servers. I'm happy to see the new ecosystem website and think the notices are helpful.

>However, it was our understanding that we wouldn't be transferring domains at this stage. If we'd like to transfer domains, that will involve an agreement to transfer some or all Dat Project IP, of which domains are part. This transfer would have to be to another 501(c)(3) not an individual or group of people, so they would go to the ownership of Open Collective Foundation. That is something we'd rather revisit after the end of the grant period.

>To be transparent, we regularly get solicitation from people seeking to buy the Dat-related domain names. As a public charity, we are restricted in how we can sell those and any sale would require board approval. While I have faith in you all as a group to not sell these domains, we feel retaining the legal protections around selling them is also worthwhile.

- alex: [CONTEXT] somebody join dat ecosystem discord and said there was a grant waiting for dat project. It may be interesting to cash out and put that in OC. Other thoughts? what do we do with the money? Open for discussion.
- paul: need to coordinate with CS&S. They hold the IP trademark/copyright for the name. They would be legally the ones to claim that. We do not have ownership of the domain. 
- alex: that's right but if they transfer that to us, they might take some % 
- paul: there might be a similar issue if they transfer to OC (hypotetically). 
- nina: if we figured out a smart use for the money, then we can revisit the option of open our own 501c org. Maybe it's worth it. 
- nina: maybe ask karissa and or mathias too.
- paul: I think first thing would be to talk with CS&S.
- nina: we can proceed immediately, who knows if the grant will be there in june
- kevin: agree with nina, also like paul said, we need to talk with cs&s first of course. ALso related to open our own 501 it wont cost that much to maintain it.
- cblgh: this hasn't been claimed in the last couple of years. Crypto space is a bit low now. If it takes a bit longer price might go up. 
- kevin,nina: we can take it and hold it.
- nina: i was informed about this airdrop like 2 years ago. I went to the whole process. After that you own it. What would be CS&S position about dealing with crypto.
- cb: that is valid only for gh keys
- serapath: how to claim tokens
https://gist.github.com/tynes/230f715c9710a089ee190b28585b6596
- serapath: some user on discord said he can help us cash out the grant but it will cost a fee 
- everybody: no thanks. We can handle this.
- diego: agreeing with all that was said: to move now on this and see with the CS&S on how to do this (to engage them). And then we can revisit the question on how to spend the funds.
- serapath: everyone is ok to contact cs&s first. 
- serapath: who would contact cs&s? 
- nina: i would split two issues, current grant and this new grant/airdrop.
- diego: agree :100:
- serapath: i offer myself to reach out them


### 4. grant tasks needs to be reviewed
- transitioning tasks are almost done. 
- 3 big tasks
    - transition and archiving: / **done**
    -  explain things
        - nina: been doing copywriting tasks / **partially done**
        - dat ecosystem garden goals
            - offer guidance and support
            - copy
    - communication updates & goals
        - community analysis
            - survey
        - interview series
        - restart the newsletter
        - website
            - design (reuse some old style)
        - ecosystem visualization 
            - just for our ecosystem
            - code & design
            - alex: reached out [anvaka](https://twitter.com/anvaka) (programmer w/vis specialization) _"It sounds interesting to him, he would be open for it. He need more info."_
            - cb: https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=hypercore
            - nina: we can reuse what cb shared. Maybe we need to continue the discussion on the [issue](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/issues/17).
            - nina: currently we don't have anyone executing this. We can't do more.

diego: good thing is that the Archiving and Transition is almost done and this is really great. The next step is the website and to figure how to make it best possible.



### 5. misc (=always on)

- dat-dns is maintained by martin. At least he started the project
- dat-sdk is maintained by mauve.
- nina: we can transition the modules to them. Ask them first. If we don't we would need to look for a new maintainer.
- nina: need to know what to do with redirects 
- serapath: we have dat-protocol.org and others that are all github pages. What should we do, forward them or anything else
- serapath: Im towards forwarding
- paul: the choices are website redirect VS ..?
- nina: dat.foundation issue
- serapath: forwarding or redirecting to gh pages. I'd recommend to do the better option.
- cb: Breaking old links will be bad :(
- nina: I'll check with redirects.

### 6. Next Facilitator: 
- kevin :trophy: 
