# Dat Consortium Meeting 62

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-June-22 Wed**
> 6am San Francisco
 7am Denver 
 9am New York
 10am Buenos Aires
 2pm London
 3pm Berlin
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?iso=20220622T22&p1=671&ah=1)

## Participants

- Martin (Facilitator)
- serapath
- Diego

## Agenda Items

- Scraper & Grant
- **ADD YOUR TOPIC**

## NOTES

Updates:

### Alex

Still working on the bridge, being able to use DatDot in the browser. At the moment I have a working basic version (not public yet) as I am reading through Browser Security Features (CORS, XSS) to figure out how to make things secure. Goal being: Delivering hyper* based content to the browser. Have to wrap my head around security implications. Publication of the bridge is quite compicated and takes longer than anticipated.

### Diego:
Learning about network effects how to leverage them for sher. When sher was launched for the first time, making use of network effects could improve how people can get to know sher.
Also part of the accelerator and still learning a lot. It includes different talks and sessions every day and sher participates. There are hundreds of other projects too. For example, yesterdays session was about possitioning and product marketing for early stages. We use it to improve how to communicate sher and to improve our pitch for sher. The name of the accelerator is [latitud](https://www.latitud.com/)

### martin:
worked on the dat-ecosystem scraper.
the initial version worked quite quickly, but it
did not use leveldb and just worked, but in order
to make it sturdy and follow the requirements it took quite a few hours more. I am quite satisfied with the results.
otherwise i am preparing my CV to apply for a frontend project to earn some money.
the DNS Link grant finally got some updates on the dev webpage and it allows to directly allows to try out DNS in the browser. It includes a lot of in detail documentation to explain the details.
https://dnslink.dev/
there is an open pull request for documenting dnslink for hyper https://github.com/dnslink-std/dnslink-website/pull/16/files


## scraper agenada item
the scraper is published and works.
the data format needs to be still updated to standardize it and document it for others to use

## handshake grant update

No news. Joe Hand says it would make time towards end of the year to revisit this.

## CS&S grant

- data scrapper in progress (@martin)
- survey done (@flame)
- article status ?
- :new: website status (@alex and team)
- website improvements by (@nina) 
- video task organization
    - martin: we can schedule most of the projects now
    - alex: we might loose the new things.
    - martin: videos can be prepared 2-3 months in advance
    - martin: plan and schedule videos now, write this down. Find and create the schedule of projects. Find the first two projects.
- new logo vote
    - martin: i like the new logo. we can vote on this (if we want to switch to the new logo)
    - alex: agree with the vote. we should do a slow transition.
    - diego: my only concern with a slow transition is that it might add inconsistency and some confussion possibly.
    - 

## Action plan

- Diego: send email to Joe Hand/Alanna Irving asking about a grant time extension of 1 month. New deadline could be set to End of July. **Current deadline is set to June 30.**
- Martin: will finish the scrapper tweaks. After that, I'll try to start writing an article.

## Next Meeeting

Diego :trophy: - July 6th
