# Dat Consortium Meeting 60

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-May-25 Wed**
> 10am San Francisco
 11am Denver 
 1pm New York
 3pm Buenos Aires
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/)


## Participants

- Diego
- Serapath
- Nina

## Agenda Items

- CS&S grant updates
- Action Items
    - serapath continues with Handshake
    - diego will check if he could take over technical article task from mauve
    - martin will check which of the open tasks he could work on
    - nina & alex will manage the website and ecosystem visualization task
    - diego will reach out to flame (working on surey task) with a deadline and if they don't provide results, we find new person for the task


## NOTES

### Updates

**Diego:** 
Working with SHER. Got accepted to an accelerator, starting in June. Working on some growth strategies. Also doing some consultancy in the middle. :exclamation:

**Serapath:**
Working on routing for our messaging sending system between components (https://github.com/datdotorg/protocol-maker).

**Nina:** 
Using protocol-maker for making comms between UI components. Using vanilla-js modules (frontend). You can listen to messages from any of these components. General theming tweaks (cascade and merge). Wizard Amigos update, we are planning to do the next wizard event in Wales (online and remote), aiming for 20 people in person. Got a little grant for this. :star: 


### CS&S grant updates
- Dat ecosytem survey: we got good twitter response (retweets and likes). Should check how many people actually answered. We could rewamp the message again in a few days. It looks like a lot of people are still interested, but they might not understand that Dat is not a protocol anymore. 
- Nina: it would be great to make a mini grant program, invite people who already have a project, like cabal, sonar. So they can update their projects. 

- website update
    - Nina: there are 2 big tasks, website & ecosystem visualization. Visualization is quite nice but big task. It could make the website quite different. 
    - Diego: going to ask the GEUT team if they can jump on this: visualization task. Don't promise nothing cause visualizations are not our speciality.
    - Alex: regarding website, they are on 80% complete. 1 dev and 2 designers, they made a draft. I share all the manifesto and things we did in the past to give them more background. Created some tasks and shared with them. 

## Action plan

- serapath: 
    - website concept and first wireframe draft
- nina: 
    - update existing website with main info
    - interview series: intro & outro + questions (concept and maybe first draft)
    - newsletter concept
- diego: 
    - find someone in the ecosystem: scraper + json + static page that shows the table
    - technical articles

## Next Meeting Moderator

- Nina :trophy: 
