# Dat Consortium Meeting 61

📍 https://meet.jit.si/dat-ecosystem
🗓 **2022-June-08 Wed**
> 10am San Francisco
 11am Denver 
 1pm New York
 2pm Buenos Aires
 6pm London
 7pm Berlin
 ??? [your time zone](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/)

## Participants

- Nina
- serapath
- Martin
- Diego

## Agenda Items

- transition and new kickstart of the Dat ecosystem *grant updates* (see action items)


## NOTES



### 1. CHECKING IN / WHAT'S NEW
- Who is taking notes today?
- Who is the next facitliator?

### 1.5 Updates

- Martin: working on dns-query module. This work started last year (with interruptions). ESM-CJS compatible (small compiler mjs -> cjs). You can not reuse DNS queries. Standard way dns over https. There is a new way, but needs to be implemented. Still deciding what to do next. Open to talk, give feedback and advice.
    - Nina: can you explain it like to a 5 years old? 
    - Martin: dns client that runs on the browser (using dns over https protocol). Offers more data than other clients.  
- serapath: Still working on bridge system. Almost done. Need to integrate a wallet, something to manage keys. isomorphic module. Using service workers. Can import `hyper://` stuff. Wallet integration useful to handling keypairs.  
    - Nina: can you explain it like to a 5 years old?
    - serapath: i dont know. empty sandbox env that works on nodejs and the browser, you should be able to import modules including hyper. if you use data, it is stored in your data vault. One way or another everything is stored in hypercores.
- Diego: Working on sher related topics. Looking to improve the communication around it. Also about to start working with an accelerator next week.
- Nina: Continue working on UI elements. Theming is stable now. Using custom communication system to update elements. Also pushing forward with the cs&s grant.

### 2. PREVIOUS ACTION ITEMS

serapath:
- current website + for later updates a new concept draft
- handshake grant next steps (https://hackmd.io/NT7RReeERU-lQsPOqZ3mXg)

nina:
- update current website with main info (history, projects and about)
- interview series: intro & outro + questions (concept and maybe first draft) (in progress)
- newsletter concept(in progress)
- survey close to being finished

diego:
- find someone in the ecosystem: scraper + json + static page that shows the table
- technical articles (if not possible, then maybe these articles could become review articles (we review each project listed on the dat-ecosystem and write a 1 page about it + screenshots/diagrams/... => Diego or we ask in the community))

martin:
- will check which of the open tasks he could work on (maybe fix scraper + json + static page that shows the table??)
- tell about Consento (does it stay listed in the Projects section)

### 4. GRANT UPDATES

- Nina: about to end the survey work. Thanks everyone for sharing. I also updated the website. Update the brands using hyper, history section and about section updates. What is missing, dat ecosystem as a garden info and consortium info. This could be the 1st draft for the new dat ecosystem update. It could be updated later. 
    - What is missing?: interview series and newsletter. 
    - Nina: went ahead and ask a group of video-skilled people. They could help us create some intro's and outro's edits. Then consortium projects can record themselves and answer some general questions. The audio/video group can edit everything together. 
- serapath: 
    - action grant, nothing new on that front. Situation is on deadlock. 
        - nina: maybe this could be restarted after september (end of fiscal year)
        - martin: how much `hns` was?
        - serapath: dont remember... 
        - 
    - webpage update, prepare the concept. Found some people who will be working on it. Paused the work, busy with my own work. Will try to restart it next week...
- diego: 
    - could find someone willing to take the scraper task.
    - no progress on tech article. 
        - nina: we can change the tech article task into a compilation of consortium projects' reviews. We already publish this on discord. There is 1 person already show interested on the task.
        - martin: Capacity is variable. Gonna give it a look but can not promise anything. :muscle: 

### 3. DISCUSSION & NEW ACTION ITEMS

#### NEW ACTION ITEMS

- 
    
### Next facilitation:

:trophy: Martin
