
# GRANT TEAM and PROPOSALS (for dat-ecosystem)

### Joe Hand's (CSS&S) email

>Hi All,
>
>Thanks for going through the remaining assets to be cleaned up, I will add those modules on npm as requested. As we proposed initially, we think the best way forward for domains is to retire the old ones (see below).
To facilitate this, and ensure the remaining funds for Dat can be spent as required, we propose that we grant $20k to the Dat Ecosystem group with the goal of improving documentation, governance, and doing necessary maintenance/organization (funds are restricted in such a way they cannot go towards additional software development on core dat/hyper tools). As part of that, we'd ask that you help support us in the work on domains outlined below.
In order to do this, we'd have a grant agreement with Dat via Open Collective Foundation, with  specific milestones/deliverables (we have already done this for our Event Fund, so can do the heavy lifting here). We'd ask that the deliverables include:
Retiring datprotocol.com and datproject.org/dat.foundation and setting up a blog archive that isn't hosted on Ghost.
**At least 25% of the grant should go to a person or group that will be responsible for managing the grant** (this was a hard part with the MOSS grant as they didn't allow funds for that).
If you all are on board with this, we will need a proposal from you for how those funds would be used, including the items above, and a timeline. I'd imagine the proposal would be a list of the deliverables with a brief description on how each deliverable furthers the goals of the consortium. These would be part of the grant agreement.
>
>Let us know if this would work for you or if you'd like to chat further.
>
>Thanks,
Joe

---

### Duration and amount

| Start time | End time | Amount   |
| --------   | -------- | -------- |
| ?          | ?        | $20.000  |

---

### Team

| Name             | *Avail     | *Comment |
| --------         | -------    | -------- |
| cblgh            | No        | Busy with current commitments, sadly. Advice: make the best use of the money by focusing on known useful tasks & already-existing projects / people / groups        |
| deka             | Yes        | I see myself working on communications-related tasks. ~~I’d like to keep martin in the team, it was good to work with him in the dat event (don’t like his rule: Up to 2…, but I understand)~~.          |
| frando           | No       | glad to be part of discussions and maybe help out here and there, but my next months are already quite busy    |
| martinheidegger  | No         | ~~Up to 2 other consortium, otherwise: too many cooks.~~ |
| mauve            | 	No        | /    Got a lot of contract work on my plate for the summer and not sure if I'd be the best for the things that need to be done    |
| ninabreznik      | 	Yes     | /        |
| pfrazee          | 	No      | Open to discussing and possibly commenting on anything but I've got a full plate |
| serapath         | 	Yes     | /        |
| zootela          | 	No        | Interested in staying involved and helping out in small ways, though        |

> ***Avail:** note if you are available to work on the transition grant

> ***Comment:** please add a comment about your availability


---

## summary of [dat-ecosystem manifesto](https://hackmd.io/XAfk8Q5NQJiCHYpB5vjZow?both)
> We, the “Dat Ecosystem” members, come together to achieve the following goals:

> * Share our knowledge on building decentralized systems.
> * Publish our work under permissive, open culture, licenses.
> * Build decentralized systems that profit the general public.
> * Have the hypercore-protocol as a foundation of our work.
> * Promote our shared goals with the public.
> * Develop solutions to shared technical problems.
> * Find and invite new members that share our goals.
> * Promote the adoption of shared technology through documentation or standardization.

> [_(for more check the manifesto itself)_](https://hackmd.io/XAfk8Q5NQJiCHYpB5vjZow?both)

---
# Proposals on how to proceed


---
# [cblgh](#)
**1. process proposal:**
> ...

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** ...
> ...


---
# [deka](#)
**1. process proposal:**
...

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** I perceive the dat-ecosystem as a group of teams building their projects around (& on top of) the hyper stack.
> I can see dat-ecosystem as a place for augmenting the conversation around the hyper stack
> and how can a team can build something with it. This is a good place for sharing resources,
> like tutorials and sometimes help maintain a possible ecosystem of modules built around
> the hyper stack (non core modules).


---
# [frando](#)
**1. process proposal:**
> ...

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** ...
- tech documentation etc.
> ...


---
# [martinheidegger](#)
**1. process proposal:**
...

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** ...
> I am thinking this should be possible to be done by 4 people in 4 blocks/roles:
> 1. 5k communication&planning, as well as reviewing PR's and verifying the result.
> 2. 7k website work, homepage work: making sure every domain is cleaned up: redirects work, works in browsers etc.
> 3. 4k Blog and SNS entries on different places.
> 4. 4k Npm and github cleanup: figuring out where the repos go, archiving etc. Trying to reach out if things have follow-ups maybe come up with migration plan.


---
# [mauve](#)
**1. process proposal:**
> ...

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** ...
> ...


---
# [ninabreznik](#)
**1. process proposal:**
> 1. We should have a clear yay or nay from every member whether they want to participate in this grant and do part of the work for it.
> 2.  Then those who want to work on it, make a simple proposal
> 3. Consortium members discuss the proposal draft and only once proposal is approved then we move forward.
> 4. We can form multiple smaller teams so we can easier manage the process
> 5. Grant team manages the grant application process and communicates with CS&S (25% of the funding)
> 6. Grant team themselves or executes the tasks (or outsources work to the external members if agreed by all the grant team) (75% of the funding)

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** https://hackmd.io/SUqtds4pRcOlRG-Zxqbd7A
> https://discord.com/channels/765986527574360065/765998967389028445/858017208281071697
> I think we captured what dat-ecosystem means to us in a Manifesto https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/blob/main/MANIFESTO.md. But if you want personal touch too, then for me it is a place to grow collaboration between projects, help new projects start and grow and active projects reach out to the user base and with all this to educate and transition people into a more p2p world where people can have control over their data and a system where we can all grow without empowering the 'big middle men' the whole time.
> I am trying to work on this idea together with everyone and started putting some thoughts into this document and hope we can all grow and expand them together https://hackmd.io/SUqtds4pRcOlRG-Zxqbd7A


---
# [pfrazee](#)
**1. process proposal:**
> ...

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** ...
> ...


---
# [serapath](#)
**1. process proposal:**
> **The consortium**
> 1. agrees on "the theme" (=higher goals) of the grant proposal and decides all the high level tasks
> 2. applies for and gets the grant to pay for managing and executing the grant proposal content
>    * it does so by delegating grant application proposal work and management to a selected **grant team**
>    * the grant team has has to delegate execution of tasks to a **task force** selected by the grant team
> 3. needs to review and accept the work plan proposed by the grant team
>    * so the grant team can manage and execute the made plan and be sure the consortium will pay for it
> 4. the consortium does not get paid for its workbut, but pays grant team and task force for their work
> 5. the consortium follows [the rules here](https://github.com/dat-ecosystem/organization/blob/main/MANIFESTO.md))
>

> **The grant team**
> (=anyone in the consortium who opts in. The team has to get paid 25% of the grant)
> 1. will work out the **content proposal**, which contains all the details to fullfill theme/higher level goals & tasks
> 2. sets budgets for all tasks in the "work breakdown structure"
> 3. write down "work breakdown structures" in issues and https://github.com/orgs/dat-ecosystem/projects/1 for consortium to confirm
> 4. writes the grant proposal and presents it to the consortium in many rounds of refinement until everything is accepted by the consortium
> 5. submits the grant proposal to CS&S for acceptance and in case its not accepted repeats step 1. and step 5. until CS&S accepts
> 6. delegates task execution and manages/reviews all tasks and presents results to the consortium for final acceptance (to unlock payment)
>    * grant team members should not work on task execution and may select members in the consortium or larger community who qualify to work on the tasks

> **The task execution force** (75% of the grant is paid here)
> 1. execute tasks from the overall "work breakdown structure"
> 2. teams or individuals from inside/outside of dat-ecosystem, but not individuals from the grant team
> 3. selected (=contracted) by grant team to execute specific paid tasks

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** Turn dat-ecosystem into a garden for helping p2p projects grow from idea to repo to self sustainable long term project (https://hackmd.io/SUqtds4pRcOlRG-Zxqbd7A?both)

> 1. finish tiered joining rules proposal and publish on website and announce it on discord and via social media
>    * https://hackmd.io/5zL2Qt4_Sv6-_YgY8rJspg?both
> 2. add big visible archive/deprecation notice with link forward to dat-ecosystem to all
>    * old unmaintained dat related modules on npm and github
> 3. add deprecation notice and information about historic time to all old dat related websites
> 4. write down a history page on dat ecosystem website that mentiones all milestones, grants, projects, libraries
>    * that have existed in the past or still exist so people can read and link to the entire story of dat
> 5. ask each project to create and maintain a video playlist with short summary explanation about their projects
>    * which they can update from time to time
>    * AND: link to it from their dat-ecosystem discord channels and the project listing on dat-ecosystem website
> 6. ask each project/person to explicitly maintain a list of projects around dat (=hyper) they are actively maintaining
>    * AND link to it from dat-ecosystem website and/or discord channels
> 7. Add a section to the website which crawls all `package.json` files of dat-ecosystem projects and draw a dependency graph


---
# [zootella](#)
**1. process proposal:**
> ...

**2. content proposal:**
* **theme:** ...
> ...
